#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman Crimson
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
The Truth, Part V, Answers and Riddles
\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
T
\end_layout

\end_inset

he
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Defense Professor had set up a cauldron, floating it into place with a
 wave of his wand, another wave starting a fire beneath it.
 A brief circling of the Defense Professor's finger had set in motion a
 long-handled spoon, and it had continued stirring the cauldron without
 being held.
 Now the Defense Professor was measuring out a heap of flowers from a large
 jar, what Harry supposed to be bellflowers; the indigo petals seemed luminous
 in the white light of the walls, and curved inward in a way that gave the
 impression of a desire for privacy.
 The first of these flowers had been added to the potion at once, but then
 the cauldron had just gone on stirring itself for a while.
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Defense Professor had assumed a position from which he could see Harry
 just by turning his head slightly, and Harry knew that he was within the
 Defense Professor's peripheral vision.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the corner a Fiendfyre phoenix waited, some of the nearby stone beginning
 to gloss over as it melted to greater smoothness.
 The burning wings shed crimson light that gave everything in the room a
 tint of blood, and reflected in scarlet sparks from the glassware.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Time is wasting,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 said Professor Quirrell.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Ask your questions, if you have them.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Why, Professor Quirrell, why, why must you be this way, why make yourself
 the monster, why Lord Voldemort, I know you might not want the same things
 I do, but I can't imagine what you want that makes
\emph default
 this 
\emph on
the best way to get it...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That was what Harry's brain wanted to know.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What Harry 
\emph on
needed
\emph default
 to know was...
 some way out of what was going to happen next.
 But the Defense Professor had said that he wouldn't talk about his future
 plans.
 It was strange enough that the Defense Professor was willing to talk about
 
\emph on
anything,
\emph default
 that had to contradict one of his Rules...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I'm thinking,” Harry said aloud.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell smiled slightly.
 He was using a pestle to grind the potion's first magical ingredient, a
 glowing red hexagon.
 “I 
\emph on
quite
\emph default
 understand,” said the Defense Professor.
 “But do not think over-long, child.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Goals: Prevent Lord Voldemort from harming people, find a way to kill or
 neutralise him, but first get the Stone and resurrect Hermione...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
...
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

convince Professor Quirrell to 
\noun on
stop this
\noun default
...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed, pushing down the emotion, trying not to let the water reach
 his eyes.
 Tears probably wouldn't make a good impression on Lord Voldemort.
 Professor Quirrell was already frowning, though from the direction of his
 gaze he was examining a leaf colored in vivid shades of white, green, and
 purple.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There wasn't any obvious way to reach any of the goals, not yet.
 All Harry could do was ask the questions that seemed most likely to provide
 useful information, even if Harry didn't yet have a plan.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
So we just ask about whatever seems most interesting?
\emph default
 said Harry's Ravenclaw side.
 
\emph on
I'm up for that.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Shut up,
\emph default
 Harry told the voice; and then, on further reflection, decided that he
 was no longer pretending it was there.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Four topics came to Harry's mind as being priorities from the standpoint
 of curiosity about important things.
 Four questions, then, four major subjects, to try to fit in while this
 potion was still being brewed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Four questions...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I ask my first question,” Harry said.
 “What really happened on the night of October 31st, 1981?” 
\emph on
Why was that night different from all other nights...

\emph default
 “I would like the entire story, please.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The question of how and why Lord Voldemort had survived his apparent death
 seemed likely to matter for future planning.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I expected you would ask that,” Professor Quirrell said, dropping a bellflower
 and a white glittering stone into the potion.
 “To begin, everything I told you about the horcrux spell is true; as you
 should realise, since I spoke in Parseltongue.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry nodded.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Within seconds after you learned the details of the spell, you perceived
 the central flaw, and began pondering how the spell might be improved.
 Do you think the young Tom Riddle was any different?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry shook his head.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well, he was,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Whenever I was tempted to despair of you, I reminded myself how I was
 an idiot at twice your age.
 When I was fifteen I made myself a horcrux as a certain book had shown
 me, using the death of Abigail Myrtle beneath the eyes of Slytherin's basilisk.
 I planned to make a new horcrux every year after I left Hogwarts, and call
 that my fallback plan if my other hopes of immortality did not come to
 fruition.
 In retrospect, the young Tom Riddle was grasping straws.
 The thought of making a 
\emph on
better
\emph default
 horcrux, of not being content with the spell I had already learned...
 this thought did not come to me until I had grasped the stupidity of ordinary
 people, and realised which follies of theirs I had imitated.
 But in time I learned the habit that you inherited from me, to ask in every
 instance how it might be done better.
 To be content with the spell I had learned from a book, when it bore only
 a faint resemblance to what I truly wanted? Absurd! And so I set forth
 to create a better spell.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You have true immortality, now?” Harry was aware that, even with everything
 else going on, this was a question more important than war and strategy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed,” said Professor Quirrell.
 He paused in his Potions work and turned to face Harry fully; there was
 a look of exultation in the man's eyes that Harry had never seen there
 before.
 “In all the Darkest Arts I could find, in all the interdicted secrets to
 which Slytherin's Monster gave me keys, in all the lore remembered among
 wizardkind, I found only hints and smatterings of what I needed.
 So I rewove it and remade it, and devised a new ritual based on new principles.
 I kept that ritual burning in my mind for years, perfecting it in imagination,
 pondering its meaning and making fine adjustments, waiting for the intention
 to stabilise.
 At last I dared to invoke my ritual, an invented sacrificial ritual, based
 on a principle untested by all known magic.
 And I lived, and yet live.” The Defense Professor spoke with quiet triumph,
 as though the act itself was so great that no words could ever do it justice.
 “I still use the word `horcrux', but only from sentiment.
 It is a new thing entirely, the greatest of all my creations.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“As one of my questions you said you'd answer, I ask how to cast that spell,”
 Harry said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Denied.” The Defense Professor turned back to his potion, dropping in a
 gray-flecked white feather and a bellflower.
 “I had thought perhaps to teach you when you were older, for no Tom Riddle
 would be content otherwise; but I have changed my mind.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Memory is a hard thing to recall, sometimes, and Harry had been trying to
 remember if Professor Quirrell had dropped any hints about this subject
 before.
 Something about Professor Quirrell's phrasing sparked a memory: 
\emph on
Perhaps you will be told when you are older...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“There are still physical anchors for your immortality,” Harry said aloud.
 “It resembles the old horcrux spell by that much, which is another reason
 you still call them horcruxes.” It was dangerous to say aloud, but Harry
 needed to 
\emph on
know.

\emph default
 “If I'm wrong, you can always deny it in Parseltongue.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell was smiling evilly.
 “
\emph on
Your guesss iss right, boy, for all the good it doess you.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Unfortunately, that wasn't a difficult vulnerability to cover if the Enemy
 was smart.
 Harry wouldn't ordinarily have made the suggestion, just in case the Enemy
 
\emph on
hadn't
\emph default
 thought of it for themselves, but in this case he'd already made it.
 “One horcrux dropped into an active volcano, weighted so it would sink
 into the Earth's mantle,” Harry said heavily.
 “The same place I thought of dropping the Dementor if I couldn't destroy
 it.
 And then you asked me where else I would hide something if I didn't want
 anyone to find it ever again.
 One horcrux buried kilometers down, in an anonymous cubic meter of the
 Earth's crust.
 One horcrux you dropped into the Mariana Trench.
 One horcrux floating high in the stratosphere, transparent.
 Even you don't know where they are, because you Obliviated the exact details
 from your memory.
 And the last horcrux is the Pioneer 11 plaque that you snuck into 
\noun on
nasa
\noun default
 and modified.
 It's where you get your image of the stars, when you cast the spell of
 starlight.
 Fire, earth, water, air, void.” 
\emph on
Something of a riddle,
\emph default
 the Defense Professor had called it, and therefore Harry had remembered
 it.
 Something of a Riddle.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed,” said the Defense Professor.
 “It did give me something of a shock when you remembered it that quickly,
 but I suppose it makes no difference; all five are beyond my reach, or
 yours.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That might not be true, especially if there was some way to trace the magical
 connection somehow and determine the location...
 though presumably Voldemort would have done his best to obscure it...
 but what magic had done, magic might be able to defeat.
 Pioneer 11 might be far away by wizard standards, but 
\noun on
nasa
\noun default
 knew exactly where it was, and it was probably a lot more reachable if
 you could use magic to tell the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation to bugger off...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A sudden note of worry plucked at Harry's mind.
 There was no rule saying the Defense Professor needed to have told the
 truth about 
\emph on
which
\emph default
 interstellar probe he'd horcruxed, and if Harry recalled correctly, communicati
on and tracking of the Pioneer 10 probe had been lost shortly after the
 Jupiter fly-by.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why wouldn't Professor Quirrell have just horcruxed them both? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The obvious next thought came to Harry.
 It was something that ought not to be suggested, if the Enemy had not thought
 of it.
 But it seemed extremely probable that the Enemy had thought of it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Tell me, teacher,
\emph default
” Harry hissed, “
\emph on
would desstroying thosse five anchors sslay you?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Why do you assk?
\emph default
” hissed the Defense Professor, with a lilt to the hiss that Parseltongue
 translated as snakish amusement.
 “
\emph on
Do you ssusspect that ansswer is no?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry couldn't think of how to answer, though he strongly suspected that
 it didn't matter in any case.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
“Your ssusspicion iss right, boy.
 Desstroying thosse five would not render me mortal.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry's throat felt a bit dry again.
 If the spell had no disastrous cost associated with it...
 “
\emph on
How many anchorss did you make?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Would not ordinarily ssay, but iss clear you have already guesssed.” 
\emph default
The Defense Professor's smile widened.
 “
\emph on
Ansswer iss that I do not know.
 Sstopped counting ssomewhere around one hundred and sseven.
 Ssimply made a habit of it each time I murdered ssomeone in private.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Over 
\emph on
one hundred
\emph default
 murders, in private, before Lord Voldemort had stopped counting.
 And even worse news -- “Your immortality spell still requires a human death?
 
\emph on
Why?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
“Great creation maintainss life and magic within devicess created by ssacrificin
g life and magic of otherss.
\emph default
” Again that hissing snake laughter.
 “
\emph on
Liked falsse desscription of previousss horcrux sspell sso much, sso dissappoint
ed when realissed truth of it, thoughtss of improved verssion came out in
 that sshape.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry wasn't sure why the Defense Professor was giving him all this vital
 information, 
\emph on
but there had to be a reason,
\emph default
 and that was making him nervous.
 “So you really are a disembodied spirit possessing Quirinus Quirrell.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Yess.
 I sshall return sswiftly, if thiss body iss killed.
 Will be greatly annoyed, and vengeful.

\emph default
 I am telling you this, boy, so that you do not try anything stupid.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I understand,” Harry said.
 He did his best to organize his thoughts, remember what he'd meant to ask
 next, while the Defense Professor turned his eyes back to the potion.
 The man's left hand was dribbling crushed seashell into the cauldron, while
 his right hand dropped in another bellflower.
 “So what did happen on October 31st? You...
 tried to turn the baby Harry Potter into a horcrux, either the new kind
 or the old kind.
 You did it deliberately, because you told Lily Potter,” Harry took a breath.
 Now that he knew 
\emph on
why
\emph default
 the chills were there, he could endure them.
 “Very well, I accept the bargain.
 Yourself to die, and the child to live.
 Now drop your wand so that I can murder you.” In retrospect, it was clear
 that Harry had remembered that event mainly from Lord Voldemort's perspective,
 and only at the very end had he seen it through the baby Harry Potter's
 eyes.
 “What did you do? 
\emph on
Why
\emph default
 did you do it?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Trelawney's prophecy,” Professor Quirrell said.
 His hand tapped a bellflower with a strip of copper before dropping it
 in.
 “I spent long days pondering it, after Snape brought the prophecy to me.
 Prophecies are never trivial things.
 And how shall I put this in a way that does not make you think stupid things...
 well, I shall say it, and if you are stupid I shall be annoyed.
 I was fascinated by the prophecy's assertion that someone would be my equal,
 because it might mean that person could hold up the other end of an intelligent
 conversation.
 After fifty years of being surrounded by gibbering stupidity, I no longer
 cared whether my reaction might be considered a literary cliché.
 I was not about to pass up on that opportunity without thinking about it
 first.
 And then, you see, I had a 
\emph on
clever idea
\emph default
.” Professor Quirrell sighed.
 “It occurred to me how I might fulfill the Prophecy my own way, to my own
 benefit.
 I would mark the baby as my equal by casting the old horcrux spell in such
 fashion as to imprint my own spirit onto the baby's blank slate; it would
 be a purer copy of myself, since there would be no old self to mix with
 the new.
 In some years, when I had become bored with ruling Britain and moved on
 to other things, I would arrange with the other Tom Riddle that he should
 appear to vanquish me, and he would rule over the Britain he had saved.
 We would play the game against each other forever, keeping our lives interestin
g amid a world of fools.
 I knew a dramatist would predict that the two of us would end by destroying
 each other; but I pondered long upon it, and decided that both of us would
 simply decline to play out the drama.
 That was my decision and I was confident that it would remain so; both
 Tom Riddles, I thought, would be too intelligent to truly go down that
 road.
 The prophecy seemed to hint that if I destroyed all but a remnant of Harry
 Potter, then our spirits would not be so different, and we could exist
 in the same world.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Something went wrong,” Harry said.
 “Something that blew off the top of the Potters' home in Godric's Hollow,
 gave me the scar on my forehead, and left your burnt body behind.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell nodded.
 His hands had slowed in their Potions work.
 “The resonance in our magic,” Professor Quirrell said quietly.
 “When I had shaped the baby's spirit to be like my own...” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry remembered the moment in Azkaban when Professor Quirrell's Killing
 Curse had collided with his Patronus.
 The burning, tearing agony in his forehead, like his head had been about
 to split in half.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I cannot count how many times I have thought of that night, rehearsing
 my mistake, thinking of wiser things I should have done,” said Professor
 Quirrell.
 “I later decided that I should have thrown my wand from my hand and changed
 into my Animagus form.
 But that night...
 that night, I instinctively tried to control the chaotic fluctuations in
 my magic, even as I felt myself burning up from inside.
 That was the wrong decision, and I failed.
 So my body was destroyed, even as I overwrote the infant Harry Potter's
 mind; 
\emph on
either
\emph default
 of us destroying all but a remnant of the other.
 And then...” Professor Quirrell's expression was controlled.
 “And then, when I regained consciousness inside my horcruxes, it turned
 out that my great creation did not work as I had hoped.
 I should have been able to float free of my horcruxes and possess any victim
 that consented to me, or that was too weak to refuse me.
 
\emph on
That
\emph default
 was the part of my great creation that failed my intent.
 As with the original horcrux spell, I would only be able to enter a victim
 who contacted the physical horcrux...
 and I had hidden my unnumbered horcruxes in places where nobody would ever
 find them.
 Your instinct is correct, boy, 
\emph on
this would not be a good time to laugh.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry stayed very quiet.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Potions-making had come to a temporary pause, a space where no ingredients
 were added while the cauldron simmered for a time.
 “I spent most of my time looking at the stars,” Professor Quirrell said,
 his voice quieter now.
 The Defense Professor had turned from the potion, staring at the white-illumina
ted walls of the room.
 “My remaining hope was the horcruxes I had hidden in the hopeless idiocy
 of my youth.
 Imbuing them into ancient lockets, instead of anonymous pebbles; guarding
 them beneath wells of poison in the center of a lake of Inferi, instead
 of portkeying them into the sea.
 If someone found one of those, and penetrated their ridiculous protections...
 but that seemed like a distant hope.
 I was not sure I would ever be embodied again.
 Yet at least I was immortal.
 The worst of all fates had been averted, my great creation had done that
 much.
 I had little left to hope for, and little left to fear.
 I decided that I would not go insane, since there seemed to be no advantage
 in it.
 Instead, I gazed out at the stars and thought, as the Sun slowly diminished
 behind me.
 I reflected on the errors of my past life; they were many, in that hindsight.
 In my imagination I constructed powerful new rituals I might attempt, if
 I was free to use my magic once more, and yet confident of my immortality.
 I contemplated ancient riddles at greater length than before, for all that
 I had once thought myself patient.
 I knew that if I won free, I would be more powerful by far than in my previous
 life; but I mostly did not expect that to happen.” Professor Quirrell turned
 back to the potion.
 “Nine years and four months after that night, a wandering adventurer named
 Quirinus Quirrell won past the protections guarding one of my earliest
 horcruxes.
 The rest you know.
 And now, boy, you may say what we both know you are thinking.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Um,” Harry said.
 “It doesn't seem like a very smart thing to say
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed, Mr.
 Potter.
 It is not a clever thing to say to me.
 Not even a little.
 Not in the slightest.
 But I 
\emph on
know you're thinking it,
\emph default
 and you will 
\emph on
go on thinking it
\emph default
 and I will 
\emph on
go on knowing that
\emph default
 until you say it.
 So speak.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“So.
 Um.
 I realise that this is something that is more obvious in hindsight than
 in foresight, and I'm certainly not suggesting that you try to correct
 the error now, but if you are a Dark Lord and you happen to hear about
 a child who has been prophesied to defeat you, there is a certain spell
 which is unblockable, unstoppable, and works every single time on anything
 with a brain
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Yes thank you Mr.
 Potter that thought occurred to me several times over the next nine years.
\emph default
” Professor Quirrell picked up another bellflower and began crumbling it
 in his bare fist.
 “I made that principle the centerpiece of my Battle Magic curriculum after
 I learned its centrality the hard way.
 It was 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 the first Rule on the younger Tom Riddle's list.
 It is only by harsh experience that we learn which principles take priority
 over which other principles; as mere words they all sound equally persuasive.
 In retrospect it would have been better if I had sent Bellatrix to the
 Potters' home in my place; but I had a Rule telling me that for such matters
 I must go myself and not try sending a trusted lieutenant.
 
\emph on
Yes,
\emph default
 I considered the Killing Curse; but I wondered if casting the Killing Curse
 at an infant would somehow cause the curse to bounce off and hit me, thus
 fulfilling the prophecy.
 How was I to know?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“So use an axe, it's hard to get a prophecy-fulfilling spell backfire out
 of an axe,” Harry said and then shut up.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I decided the safest path was to try to fulfill the prophecy on my own
 terms,” Professor Quirrell said.
 “Needless to say, the next time I hear a prophecy I do not like, I will
 tear it apart at 
\emph on
every possible point of intervention
\emph default
, rather than trying to play along.” Professor Quirrell was crushing a rose
 as though to squeeze the juice out of it, still using his bare fist.
 “And now everyone thinks the Boy-Who-Lived is somehow immune to the Killing
 Curse, even though Killing Curses do not ruin houses or leave burnt bodies
 behind them, 
\emph on
because it has not occurred to them that Lord Voldemort would ever use any
 other spell.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry again stayed quiet.
 It had occurred to Harry that there was another obvious way that Lord Voldemort
 could have avoided his mistake.
 Something that might perhaps be easier to see given a Muggle upbringing,
 instead of the wizarding way of looking at things.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry had not yet decided whether to tell Professor Quirrell about his thought;
 there were both pros and cons to pointing out that particular error.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After a time Professor Quirrell picked up the next Potions ingredient, a
 strand of what looked like unicorn hair.
 “I tell you this as a caution,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Do not expect me to be delayed another nine years, if you somehow destroy
 this body of mine.
 I set horcruxes in better places at once, and now even that is unnecessary.
 Thanks to you, I learned where to find the Resurrection Stone.
 The Resurrection Stone does not bring back the dead, of course; but it
 holds a more ancient magic than my own for projecting the seeming of a
 spirit.
 And since I am one who has defeated death, Cadmus's Hallow acknowledged
 me its master, and answered all my will.
 I have now incorporated it into my great creation.” Professor Quirrell smiled
 slightly.
 “I had many years earlier considered making that device a horcrux, but
 decided against it at the time, since I realized that the ring had magic
 of unknown nature...
 ah, such ironies does life play upon us.
 But I digress.
 
\emph on
You
\emph default
, boy, you brought that about, you freed my spirit to fly where it pleases
 and seduce the most opportune victim, by being too casual with your secrets.
 It is a catastrophe for any who oppose me, and you wrought it with one
 finger drawing wetness on a tea-saucer.
 This world will be a safer place for all, if you learn the rectitude that
 wizardborns absorb in childhood.
 
\emph on
And all thiss that I have jusst said iss the truth.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry closed his eyes, and his own hand massaged his forehead; if he had
 seen it from the outside, it would have looked the mirror of Professor
 Quirrell in deep thought.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem of defeating Professor Quirrell was looking increasingly difficult,
 even by the standards of the sort of impossible problems that Harry had
 solved already.
 If communicating that difficulty was what Professor Quirrell was trying
 to do, he was 
\emph on
succeeding.

\emph default
 Harry was starting to seriously consider the possibility that it might
 be better to offer to rule Britain as Voldemort's 
\emph on
nonhomicidal
\emph default
 delegate, if Professor Quirrell himself would just agree to 
\emph on
stop killing people all the time.

\emph default
 Even 
\emph on
mostly
\emph default
.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But that wasn't likely to happen.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry stared at his hands, from where he had sat down upon the floor, feeling
 sadness shading over into despair.
 The Lord Voldemort who'd given Harry his dark side had spent 
\emph on
that long
\emph default
 thinking things over and reflecting on his own thought processes...
 and had emerged as the calm, clear-headed, and still homicidal Professor
 Quirrell.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell added a pinch of golden hair to the 
\emph on
potion of effulgence,
\emph default
 and that reminded Harry that time was continuing to move; the locks of
 bright hair were rarer than the bellflowers.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I ask my second question,” Harry said.
 “Tell me about the Philosopher's Stone.
 Does it do anything besides making Transfigurations permanent? Is it possible
 to make more Stones, and why is that problem hard?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell was bent over the potion, and Harry could not see his
 face.
 “Very well, I shall tell you the Stone's story as I have inferred it.
 The one and only power of the Stone is the imposition of permanency, to
 render a temporary form into a true and lasting substance -- a power absolutely
 beyond ordinary spells.
 Conjurations such as the castle Hogwarts are maintained by a constant well
 of magic.
 Even Metamorphmagi cannot manifest golden fingernails and then trim them
 for sale.
 It is theorized that the Metamorphmagus curse merely rearranges the substance
 of their flesh, like a Muggle smith manipulates iron with hammer and tongs;
 and their body contains no gold.
 If Merlin himself could create gold from thin air, history does not record
 it.
 So the Stone, we can guess even before research, must be a very old thing
 indeed.
 In contrast, Nicholas Flamel has been known to the world for a mere six
 centuries.
 Tell me the obvious next question to ask, boy, if you wanted to trace the
 Stone's history.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Um,” Harry said.
 He rubbed his forehead, concentrating.
 If the Stone was old, but the world had only known Nicholas Flamel for
 six centuries...
 “Was there some other very long-lived wizard who disappeared at around
 the same time Nicholas Flamel showed up?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Close,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “You recall that six centuries ago there was a Dark Lady called undying,
 the sorceress Baba Yaga? She was said to be able to heal any wound in herself,
 to change shape into any form she pleased...
 she held the Stone of Permanency, obviously.
 And then one year Baba Yaga agreed to teach Battle Magic at Hogwarts, under
 an old and respected truce.” Professor Quirrell looked...
 
\emph on
angry,
\emph default
 a look such as Harry had rarely seen on him.
 “But she was not trusted, and so there was invoked a curse.
 Some curses are easier to cast when they bind yourself and others alike;
 Slytherin's Parselmouth curse is an example of such.
 In this case, Baba Yaga's signature, and signatures from every student
 and teacher of Hogwarts, were placed within an ancient device known as
 the Goblet of Fire.
 Baba Yaga swore not to shed a drop of students' blood, nor take from the
 students anything that was theirs.
 In return, the students swore not to shed a drop of Baba Yaga's blood,
 nor take from her anything that was hers.
 So they all signed, with the Goblet of Fire to witness it and punish the
 transgressor.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell picked up a new ingredient, a loose thread of gold wrapped
 around a pinch of foul-looking substance.
 “Entering her sixth year at Hogwarts, then, was a witch named Perenelle.
 And although Perenelle was new-come into the beauty of her youth, her heart
 was already blacker than Baba Yaga's own
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
You're
\emph default
 calling her evil?” Harry said, then realized he had just committed the
 fallacy of 
\emph on
ad hominem tu quoque.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hush, boy, I am telling the story.
 Where was I? Ah, yes, Perenelle, the beautiful and covetous.
 Perenelle seduced the Dark Lady over the months, with gentle touches and
 flirtations and the shy pretense of innocence.
 The Dark Lady's heart was captured, and they became lovers.
 And then one night Perenelle whispered how she had heard of Baba Yaga's
 shape-changing power and how this thought had enflamed her desires; thus
 Perenelle swayed Baba Yaga to come to her with the Stone in hand, to assume
 many guises in a single night, for their pleasures.
 Among other forms Perenelle bid Baba Yaga take the form of a man; and they
 lay together in the fashion of a man and a woman.
 But Perenelle had been a virgin until that night.
 And since they were all rather old-fashioned in those days, the Goblet
 of Fire accounted that as the shedding of Perenelle's blood, and the taking
 of what was hers; thus Baba Yaga was tricked into being forsworn.
 Then Perenelle killed the unsuspecting Baba Yaga as she slept in Perenelle's
 bed, killed the Dark Lady who had loved her and come peacefully to Hogwarts
 under truce; and that was the end of the pact by which Dark Wizards and
 Witches taught Battle Magic at Hogwarts.
 For the next few centuries the Goblet of Fire was used to oversee pointless
 inter-school tournaments, and then it resided in a disused chamber at Beauxbato
ns, until I finally stole it.” Professor Quirrell dropped a pale beige-pink
 twig into the cauldron, and its color changed to white just as it touched
 the surface.
 “But I digress.
 Perenelle took the Stone from Baba Yaga, and assumed the guise and name
 of Nicholas Flamel.
 She also kept her identity as Perenelle, calling herself Flamel's wife.
 The two have appeared together in public, but that might be done by any
 number of obvious methods.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And the Stone's manufacture?” said Harry, his brain working to process
 all this.
 “I saw an alchemical recipe for it, in a book
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Another lie.
 Perenelle was making it appear as though `Nicholas Flamel' had earned the
 right to live forever by completing a great magic that any could attempt.
 And she was giving others a false path to pursue, instead of seeking the
 one true Stone as Perenelle had sought Baba Yaga's.” Professor Quirrell
 looked rather sour.
 “It should come as no surprise that I spent years trying to master that
 false recipe.
 Next you will ask why I did not kidnap, torture, and kill Perenelle after
 I learned the truth.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This had not in fact been a question that had come into Harry's mind.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell continued to speak.
 “The answer is that Perenelle had foreseen and forestalled the ambitions
 of Dark Wizards like myself.
 `Nicholas Flamel' publicly took Unbreakable Vows not to be coerced by any
 means into relinquishing his Stone -- to guard immortality from the covetous,
 he claimed, as if that were a public service.
 I was afraid the Stone would be lost forever, if Perenelle died without
 saying where it was hidden, and her Vow prevented attempts at torture.
 Further, I had hopes of gaining Perenelle's knowledge, if I could find
 the right strategy to extract it from her.
 Though Perenelle began with little lore of her own, she has held hostage
 the lives of wizards greater than herself, holding out dribs and drabs
 of healing in exchange for secrets, and small reversals of age in exchange
 for power.
 Perenelle does not condescend to bestow any real youth upon others -- but
 if you hear of a wizard who lived, greybearded, to the age of two hundred
 and fifty, you may be sure that her hand was in play.
 By my own generation, the centuries had given Perenelle enough of an advantage
 that she could raise up Albus Dumbledore as a counterweight to the Dark
 Lord Grindelwald.
 When I appeared as Lord Voldemort, Perenelle raised up Dumbledore yet further,
 parceling out another drop of her hoarded lore whenever Lord Voldemort
 seemed to gain an advantage.
 I felt like I ought to be able to figure out something clever to do with
 that situation, but I never did.
 I did not attack her directly, for I was not sure of my great creation;
 it was not impossible that I would someday need to go begging to her for
 a dollop of reversed age.” Professor Quirrell dropped two bellflowers at
 once into the potion, and they seemed to merge as they touched the bubbling
 liquid.
 “But now I am sure of my creation, and so I have decided that the time
 has come to take the Stone by force.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry hesitated.
 “I would like to hear you answer in Parseltongue, was all of that true?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
None of it iss known to me to be falsse,
\emph default
” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Telling a tale implies filling in certain gaps; I was not present to observe
 when Perenelle seduced Baba Yaga.
 
\emph on
The bassicss sshould be mosstly correct, I think.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry had noticed a trace of confusion
\emph on
.

\emph default
 “Then I don't understand why the Stone is here in Hogwarts.
 Wouldn't the best defense just be hiding it under an anonymous rock in
 Greenland?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Perhaps she respected my abilities as a particularly good finder,” said
 the Defense Professor.
 He appeared focused on his cauldron as he dipped a bellflower into a jar
 of liquid labeled with the Potions symbol for rainwater.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
We are very much alike, the Defense Professor and I, in some ways if not
 others.
 If I imagine what I'd do, given his problem...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Did you bluff everyone into 
\emph on
believing
\emph default
 you had some way of finding the Stone?” Harry said aloud.
 “So that Perenelle would put it inside Hogwarts, where Dumbledore could
 guard it?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Defense Professor sighed, not looking up from the cauldron.
 “I suppose that stratagem would be futile to conceal from you.
 Yes, after I possessed Quirrell and returned, I implemented a strategy
 I had conceived while gazing at the stars.
 First I made sure to be accepted as Defense Professor at Hogwarts, for
 it would not do to have suspicions raised while I was still seeking employment.
 When that was done, I arranged for one of Perenelle's curse-breaking expedition
s to discover a falsified but credible inscription describing how the Crown
 of the Serpent could be used to seek out the Stone wherever it was hidden.
 Immediately after, before Perenelle could buy up the Crown, it was stolen;
 furthermore I left clear indications that the thief had possessed the power
 to speak to snakes.
 So Perenelle thought that I could infallibly find the Stone's location,
 and that it needed a guardian powerful enough to defeat me.
 That is how the Stone came to be held in Hogwarts, in Dumbledore's domain.
 Just as I intended, naturally, since I had already gained access to Hogwarts
 for the year.
 I think that is all of this that concerns you, if I speak not of future
 plans.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry frowned.
 Professor Quirrell should not have told him that.
 Unless the strategy had somehow become irrelevant to any future deception
 of Perenelle...? Or unless, by answering so quickly, the Defense Professor
 had hoped to have people conclude that it was a double-bluff, and that
 the Crown of the Serpent really could find the Stone...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry decided not to question this answer in Parseltongue.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another lock of bright hair, seeming white but not with age, was gently
 dribbled into the cauldron, again reminding Harry that they were on a time
 limit.
 Harry considered, but he couldn't see any further path to pursue this line
 of questioning; there was no known way to manufacture more Philosopher's
 Stones and no obvious way to invent such, which was probably the 
\emph on
objectively
\emph default
 worst news Harry had heard all day.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry took a deep breath.
 “I ask my third question,” Harry said.
 “What's the truth behind this entire school year? All the plots you ran,
 all the plots you know about.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hm,” said Professor Quirrell, dropping another bellflower into the potion,
 accompanied by a plant-shape like a tiny cross.
 “Let me see...
 the most shocking twist is that the Defense Professor turns out to be secretly
 Voldemort.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well, obviously,” Harry said, with a good deal of self-directed bitterness.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then where do you wish me to start?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Why did you kill Hermione?” The question just slipped out.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's pale eyes glanced up from the potion, watched him intently.
 “One would think that should be evident -- but I suppose I cannot blame
 you for distrusting what seems evident.
 To understand the object of an obscure plot, observe its consequences and
 ask who might have intended them.
 I killed Miss Granger to improve your position relative to that of Lucius
 Malfoy, since my plans did not call for him to have so much leverage over
 you.
 I admit I am impressed by how far you managed to parlay that opening.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry unclenched his teeth, which took an effort.
 “That's after your failed attempt to 
\emph on
frame
\emph default
 Hermione for the attempted murder of Draco and 
\emph on
send her to Azkaban
\emph default
 because of 
\emph on
why?
\emph default
 Because you didn't like the influence she was having on me?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Don't be ridiculous,” Professor Quirrell said.
 “If I had only wished to remove Miss Granger, I would not have brought
 the Malfoys into it.
 I observed your game with Draco Malfoy and found it amusing, but I knew
 it could not continue for very long before Lucius learned and intervened;
 and then your folly would have brought you great trouble, for Lucius would
 not take it lightly.
 Had you just been able to 
\emph on
lose
\emph default
 during the Wizengamot trial, 
\emph on
lose
\emph default
 as I had taught you, then in only two more weeks, ironclad evidence would
 have shown that Lucius Malfoy, after discovering his son's seeming perfidy,
 had Imperiused Professor Sprout into using the Blood-Cooling Charm on Mr.
 Malfoy and casting the False Memory Charm on Miss Granger.
 Lucius would have been swept off the political gameboard, sent to exile
 if not Azkaban; Draco Malfoy would have inherited the wealth of House Malfoy,
 and your influence over him would have been unchallenged.
 Instead I had to abort that plot in mid-course.
 You managed to completely disrupt the real plan in the course of sacrificing
 double your entire fortune, by giving Lucius Malfoy the perfect opportunity
 to prove his true concern for his son.
 You have an incredible anti-talent for meddling, I must say.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And you also thought,” Harry said, even with his dark side's patterns he
 had to work to keep his voice level and cool, “that two weeks in Azkaban
 would improve Miss Granger's disposition, and get her to stop being a bad
 influence on me.
 So you somehow arranged for there to be newspaper stories calling for her
 to be sent to Azkaban, rather than some other penalty.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's lips drew up in a thin smile.
 “Good catch, boy.
 Yes, I thought she might serve as your Bellatrix.
 That particular outcome would also have provided you with a constant reminder
 of how much respect was due the law, and helped you develop appropriate
 attitudes toward the Ministry.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Your plot was stupidly complicated and had no chance of working.” Harry
 knew he ought to be more tactful, that he was engaging in more of what
 Professor Quirrell called 
\emph on
folly,
\emph default
 but in that instant he could not bring himself to care.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It was less complicated than Dumbledore's plot to have the three armies
 tie in the Christmas Battle, and not much more complicated than my own
 plot to make you think Dumbledore had blackmailed Mr.
 Zabini.
 The insight you are missing, Mr.
 Potter, is that these were not plots that 
\emph on
needed
\emph default
 to succeed.” Professor Quirrell continued to casually stir the potion, smiling.
 “There are plots that 
\emph on
must
\emph default
 succeed, where you keep the core idea as simple as possible and take every
 precaution.
 There are also plots where it is acceptable to fail, and with those you
 can indulge yourself, or test the limits of your ability to handle complication
s.
 It was not as if something going wrong with any of those plots would have
 killed me.” Professor Quirrell was no longer smiling.
 “Our journey into Azkaban was of the first type, and I was less amused
 by your antics there.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What 
\emph on
exactly
\emph default
 did you do to Hermione?” Some part of Harry wondered at the evenness of
 his voice.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Obliviations and False Memory Charms.
 I could not trust anything else to go undetected by the Hogwarts wards
 and the scrutiny I knew her mind would undergo.” A flicker of frustration
 crossed Professor Quirrell's face.
 “Part of what you rightly call complication is because the first version
 of my plot did not go as planned, and I had to modify it.
 I came to Miss Granger in the hallways wearing the appearance of Professor
 Sprout, to offer her a conspiracy.
 My first attempt at suasion failed.
 I Obliviated her and tried again with a new presentation.
 The second bait failed.
 The third bait failed.
 The 
\emph on
tenth
\emph default
 bait failed.
 I was so frustrated that I began going through my entire library of guises,
 including those more appropriate to Mr.
 Zabini.
 
\emph on
Still
\emph default
 nothing worked.
 The child 
\emph on
would not
\emph default
 violate her childish code.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
You
\emph default
 do not get to call her childish, Professor.” Harry's voice sounded strange
 in his own ears.
 “Her code 
\emph on
worked.

\emph default
 It prevented you from tricking her.
 The whole point of having deontological ethical injunctions is that arguments
 for violating them are often much less trustworthy than they look.
 You don't get to criticize her rules when they worked exactly as intended.”
 After they resurrected Hermione, Harry would tell her that Lord Voldemort
 himself hadn't been able to tempt her into doing wrong, and that was why
 he'd killed her.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Fair enough, I suppose,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “There is a saying that even a stopped clock is right twice a day, and
 I do not think Miss Granger was actually being reasonable.
 Still, Rule Ten: one must not rant about the opposition's unworthiness
 after they have foiled you.
 Regardless.
 After two full hours of failed attempts, I realized that I was being over-stubb
orn, and that I did not need Miss Granger to carry out the exact part I
 had planned for her.
 I gave up on my original intent, and instead imbued Miss Granger with False
 Memories of watching Mr.
 Malfoy plotting against her under circumstances that implied she should
 not tell you or the authorities.
 In the end it was Mr.
 Malfoy who gave me the opening I needed, entirely by luck.” Professor Quirrell
 dropped a bellflower and a scrap of parchment into the cauldron.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Why did the wards show the Defense Professor as having killed Hermione?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I wore the mountain troll as a false tooth while Dumbledore was identifying
 me to the Hogwarts wards as the Defense Professor.” A slight smile.
 “Other living weapons cannot be Transfigured; they will not survive the
 disenchantment for the requisite six hours to avoid being traced by Time-Turner.
 The fact that a mountain troll was used as a weapon of assassination was
 a clear sign that the assassin had needed a proxy weapon that could be
 Transfigured safely.
 Combined with the evidence of the wards, and Dumbledore's own knowledge
 of how he had identified me to Hogwarts, you could have deduced who was
 responsible -- in theory.
 However, experience has taught me that such puzzles are far harder to solve
 when you do not already know the solution, and I considered it a small
 risk.
 Ah, that reminds me, I have a question of my own.” The Defense Professor
 was now giving Harry an intent look.
 “What gave me away at the last, in the corridor outside these chambers?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry put aside other emotions to weigh up the cost and benefit of answering
 honestly, came to the conclusion that the Defense Professor was giving
 away far more information than he was getting (
\emph on
why?
\emph default
) and that it was best not to give the appearance of reticence.
 “The main thing,” Harry said, “was that it was too improbable that everyone
 had arrived in Dumbledore's corridor at the same time.
 I tried running with the hypothesis that everyone who arrived had to be
 coordinated, including you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But I had said that I was following Snape,” the Defense Professor said.
 “Was that not plausible?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It was, but...” Harry said.
 “Um.
 The laws governing what constitutes a good explanation don't talk about
 plausible excuses you hear afterward.
 They talk about the probabilities we assign in advance.
 That's why science makes people do advance predictions, instead of trusting
 explanations people come up with afterward.
 And I wouldn't have predicted in advance for you to follow Snape and show
 up like that.
 Even if I'd known in advance that you could put a trace on Snape's wand,
 I wouldn't have 
\emph on
expected
\emph default
 you to do it and follow him just then.
 Since your explanation didn't make me feel like I would have predicted
 the outcome in advance, it remained an improbability.
 I started to wonder if Sprout's mastermind might have arranged for you
 to show up, too.
 And then I realised the note to myself hadn't really come from future-me,
 and that gave it away completely.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah,” said the Defense Professor, and sighed.
 “Well, I think it is all working out for the best.
 You did understand only too late; and there would have been inconveniences
 as well as benefits to you remaining unaware.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What on 
\emph on
Earth
\emph default
 were you trying to do? The reason I was trying so hard to figure it out
 was that the whole thing was just so weird.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That should have pointed at Dumbledore, not myself,” said Professor Quirrell,
 and frowned.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

The fact is that Miss Greengrass was not supposed to arrive in that corridor
 for several hours...
 though I suppose, since I did have Mr.
 Malfoy give her the clue I assigned her, it is not too surprising they
 banded together.
 Had
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
“I 
\emph on
hope
\emph default
 it does not point at Dumbledore, though I do not think he would use children
 so, against me...
 the fact is that Miss Greengrass was not supposed to arrive in that corridor
 for several hours.
 I am not sure why her party arrived in Mr.
 Malfoy's company, and had
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Mr.
 Nott arrived seemingly alone, events would have played out less farcically.
 But I consider myself a specialist in battlefield control magics, and I
 was able to ensure that the fight went as I wished.
 I suppose it did end up looking a bit ridiculous.” The Defense Professor
 dropped a peach slice and a bellflower into the cauldron.
 “But let us defer our discussion of the Mirror until we reach it.
 Did you have any more questions concerning Miss Granger's regrettable and
 hopefully temporary demise?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes,” Harry said in an even voice.
 “What did you do to the Weasley twins? Dumbledore thought -- I mean, the
 school saw the Headmaster go to the Weasley twins after Hermione was arrested.
 Dumbledore thought you, as Voldemort, had wondered why Dumbledore had done
 so, and that you'd checked on the Weasley twins, found and took their map,
 and Obliviated them afterward?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Dumbledore was quite correct,” Professor Quirrell said, shaking his head
 as though in wonderment.
 “He was also an utter fool to leave the Hogwarts Map in the possession
 of those two idiots.
 I had an unpleasant shock after I recovered the Map; it showed my name
 and yours correctly! The Weasley idiots had thought it a mere malfunction,
 especially after you received your Cloak and your Time-Turner.
 If Dumbledore had kept the Map himself -- if the Weasleys had ever spoken
 of it to Dumbledore -- but they did not, thankfully.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Showed my name and yours correctly -- 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I would like to see that,” Harry said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Without taking his eyes from the cauldron, Professor Quirrell drew a folded
 parchment from within his robes, hissed at it “
\emph on
Sshow our ssurroundingss
\emph default
“, and tossed the folded parchment toward Harry.
 It cut unerringly through the air, an increase of doom breathing on Harry's
 senses as it moved toward him, and then it fluttered gently to Harry's
 feet.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry picked up the parchment and unfolded it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At first the parchment seemed blank.
 Then, as though an unseen pen were moving across it, the outline of walls
 and doors appeared, all drawn in handwritten lines.
 The writing outlined a series of chambers, most of them shown as empty;
 the last chamber in the series had a confused scribble in its center, as
 though the Map were trying to indicate its own bewilderment; and the second-to-
last chamber showed two names within, written in positions within the chamber
 corresponding to where Harry was sitting and Professor Quirrell was standing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Tom M.
 Riddle.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Tom M.
 Riddle.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry gazed at the parchment, an unpleasant chill coming over him.
 It was one thing to hear Lord Voldemort claim that your name was Tom Riddle;
 it was another thing to find that Hogwarts's magic agreed.
 “
\emph on
Did you tamper with thiss map to achieve thiss ressult, or did it appear
 before you by ssurprisse?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
“Wass ssurprisse,
\emph default
” replied Professor Quirrell, with an overtone of hissing laughter.
 “
\emph on
No trickss.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry folded the Map and threw it back in Professor Quirrell's direction;
 some force caught it in midair before it reached the floor, and drew the
 Map back into Professor Quirrell's robes.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Defense Professor spoke.
 “I should also like to volunteer that Snape was guiding Miss Granger and
 her underlings toward bullies, and sometimes intervening to protect them.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I knew that.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Interesting,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Did Dumbledore also learn of this? Answer in Parseltongue.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Not sso far ass I know,
\emph default
” hissed Harry.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Fascinating,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “You may be interested to know this as well: 
\emph on
Potionss-maker had to work in ssecret because hiss plot oppossed sschoolmasster'
s plot.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry thought about this, while Professor Quirrell blew on the potion as
 though to cool it, though the fire still burned under the cauldron; then
 added a pinch of dirt and a drop of water and a bellflower.
 “Please explain,” Harry said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Has it never occurred to you to wonder why Dumbledore chose Severus Snape
 as the Head of House Slytherin? To say that it was a cover for his work
 as Dumbledore's spy explains nothing.
 Snape could have been a Potions Master only, and not the Head of Slytherin
 at all.
 Snape could have been made Keeper of Grounds and Keys, if he needed to
 stay within Hogwarts! Why the 
\emph on
Head of House Slytherin?
\emph default
 Surely it occurred to you that this could not have good effects upon the
 Slytherins, according to Dumbledore's moral pretenses?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thought hadn't occurred to Harry in 
\emph on
exactly
\emph default
 those terms, no...
 “I wondered something like it.
 I didn't put the dilemma in that precise form.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And now that you have, is the solution obvious?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No,” Harry said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Disappointing.
 You have not learned enough cynicism, you have not grasped the 
\emph on
flexibility
\emph default
 of what moralists call morality.
 To fathom a plot, look at the consequences and ask if they might be intended.
 Dumbledore was deliberately sabotaging Slytherin House -- don't give me
 that look, boy, 
\emph on
I am sspeaking truth.

\emph default
 During the last Wizarding War, Slytherins filled out my ranks of underlings,
 and other Slytherins in the Wizengamot supported me.
 Look at it from Dumbledore's perspective, and remember that he has no native
 understanding of Slytherin's ways.
 Think of Dumbledore becoming increasingly sad over this Hogwarts House
 that seems the source of so much ill-doing.
 And then behold, Dumbledore puts in as Head of Slytherin the person of
 Snape.
 Snape! Severus Snape! A man who would teach his House neither cunning nor
 ambition, a man who would impose lax discipline and make its children weak!
 A man who would offend students of other Houses, who would ruin Slytherin's
 name among them! A man whose surname was unknown in magical Britain and
 certainly not noble, who went about half in rags! Do you think Dumbledore
 ignorant of the consequence? When Dumbledore was the one who brought it
 about, and had motive to bring it about? I expect Dumbledore told himself
 that more lives would be saved during the next Wizarding War if Voldemort's
 future Death Eaters were weakened.” Professor Quirrell dropped into the
 cauldron a chip of ice, slowly melting as it touched the surface froth.
 “Continue the process long enough, and no child would want to go to Slytherin.
 The House would be retired, and if the Hat kept calling the name, it would
 become a mark of ignominy among children who would afterward be distributed
 among the other three Houses.
 From that day on, Hogwarts would have three upstanding Houses of courage
 and scholarship and industry, with no House of Bad Children added to the
 mix; just as if the three Founders of Hogwarts had been wise enough in
 the beginning to refuse Salazar Slytherin their company.
 That, I expect, was Dumbledore's intended end-game; a short-term sacrifice
 for the greater good.” Professor Quirrell smiled sardonically.
 “And Lucius let it all happen without protest or even, I expect, 
\emph on
noticing
\emph default
 that anything was going awry.
 I fear that in my absence my former servants have been quite outmatched
 in this battle of wits.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry was having a bit of trouble taking this in, but decided, after some
 thought, that now was not the time to try to work it out.
 Whether Lord Voldemort believed it was not decisive; Harry would have to
 evaluate this accusation on his own.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's mention of his 
\emph on
servants
\emph default
 had reminded Harry of something else that he was...
 obligated, Harry supposed, to ask.
 The bad news was predictable.
 On any other day it would have been horrible.
 Today it would just wash out in the flood.
 “Bellatrix Black,” Harry said.
 “What was the truth about her?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“She was broken inside before I ever met her,” Professor Quirrell said.
 He picked up what looked like a white-grey rubber band and held it over
 the cauldron; as the rubber was held within the steam, it turned black.
 “Using Legilimency on her was a mistake.
 But that glimpse showed me how easy it would be to make her fall in love
 with me, so I did.
 Ever after she was the most faithful of all my servants, the only one I
 could almost trust.
 I had no intention of giving her what she wanted from me; so I commended
 her to the Lestrange brothers for their use, and the three of them were
 happy in their own special way.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I doubt it,” Harry's mouth said, mostly on autopilot.
 “If that were true, Bellatrix wouldn't have remembered who the Lestrange
 brothers were, when we found her in Azkaban.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell shrugged.
 “You may be right.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What the hell were we actually doing there?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Finding out where Bellatrix had put my wand.
 I had told the Death Eaters of my immortality, in the hope -- now proven
 futile -- that they would stay together for at least a few 
\emph on
days
\emph default
 if I appeared to die.
 Bellatrix's instructions were to recover my wand from wherever my body
 had been slain; and take that wand to a certain graveyard where my spirit
 would appear before her.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed.
 The image came to him of Bellatrix Black waiting, waiting, waiting at the
 graveyard, in increasing desperation...
 it was no wonder she hadn't been thinking strategically when she attacked
 the Longbottom household.
 “What did you do with Bellatrix once she was out?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Ssent her to a peaceful place to recover sstrength
\emph default
,” Professor Quirrell said.
 A cold smile.
 “I had a use remaining for her, or rather a certain portion of her, and
 on my future plans I shall not answer questions.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry breathed deeply, trying to maintain control.
 “Were there any other secret plots in this school year?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Oh, a fair number, but not many more that concern you, not that I can think
 of offhand.
 The true reason I demanded to try to teach the Patronus Charm to first-years
 was to bring a Dementor before your own person, and then I arranged for
 your wand to fall where the Dementor could continue to drain you through
 it.
 
\emph on
Wass no malice in it, only hopess that you would recover ssome of your true
 memoriess.

\emph default
 That was also why I arranged for certain witches to pull you down from
 the air during your rooftop episode, so I could appear to save your life;
 just in case any suspicion fell on me during the Dementor incident I had
 scheduled for shortly after.
 
\emph on
Alsso no malice there.

\emph default
 I arranged some of the attacks on Miss Granger's group, so that the attacks
 could be defeated; I do rather dislike bullies.
 
\emph on
Think that iss all ssecret plotss concerning you from thiss sschool-year,
 unless I have forgotten ssomething.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Life lesson learned,
\emph default
 said his Hufflepart.
 
\emph on
Try to resist the temptation to randomly meddle in other people's lives.
 Like, you know, Padma Patil's life.
 If you don't want to end up like this, that is.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A pinch of red-brown dust was gently sifted into the potions cauldron, and
 Harry asked his fourth and final question, the one that had seemed to have
 the lowest priority, but still mattered.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What was your objective during the Wizarding War?” Harry said.
 “I mean, what
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” His voice wobbled.
 “What was the 
\emph on
point
\emph default
 of the 
\emph on
entire thing?
\emph default
” His brain repeating endlessly, 
\emph on
Why, why, why Lord Voldemort...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell lifted an eyebrow.
 “They told you about David Monroe, did they not?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes you were both David Monroe and Lord Voldemort during the Wizarding
 War, I understood that part.
 You killed David Monroe, disguised yourself as him, and wiped out David
 Monroe's family so they wouldn't notice any differences
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You planned to control whichever side won the Wizarding War, regardless
 of which side won.
 But why did one side have to be 
\emph on
Voldemort?
\emph default
 I, I mean, wouldn't it have been easier to gain public support with someone
 less...
 with someone less Voldemort?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's mallet made an unusually loud 
\emph on
thud
\emph default
 as it crushed white butterfly wings, mixing them with another bellflower.
 “I 
\emph on
planned,
\emph default
” Professor Quirrell said harshly, “for Lord Voldemort to 
\emph on
lose
\emph default
 to David Monroe.
 The flaw in that strategy was the absolute wretchedness of
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Professor Quirrell stopped.
 “No, I am telling the tale out of order.
 Listen, boy, when I had devised my great creation and come into the fullness
 of my magic, I thought the time had come for me to take political power
 into my hands.
 It would be inconvenient, certainly, and take up my time in ways that were
 not enjoyable.
 But I knew the Muggles would eventually destroy the world or make war on
 wizardkind or both, and something had to be done if I was not to wander
 a dead or dull world through my eternity.
 Having attained immortality I needed a new ambition to occupy my decades,
 and to prevent the Muggles from ruining everything seemed a goal of acceptable
 scope and difficulty.
 It is a source of continual amusement to me that I, of all people, am the
 only one really taking action towards that end.
 Though I suppose it would make sense for the mortal insects not to care
 about their world's end; why should they, when they are just going to die
 regardless, and can save themselves the inconvenience of trying to do anything
 difficult along the way? But I digress.
 I saw how Dumbledore had risen to power from his defeat of Grindelwald,
 so I thought I would do the same.
 I had long ago taken my vengeance on David Monroe -- he was an annoyance
 from my year in Slytherin -- so I bethought to also steal his identity,
 and wipe out his family to make myself heir of his House.
 And I conceived also a great foe for David Monroe to fight, the most terrifying
 Dark Lord imaginable, clever beyond reckoning; more dangerous by far than
 Grindelwald, for his intelligence would be perfected in all the ways that
 Grindelwald had been flawed and self-destructive.
 A Dark Lord who would do his cunning utmost to disrupt the alliances who
 would fight him, a Dark Lord who would command the deepest loyalty from
 his followers through his oratical skills.
 The most dreadful Dark Lord who had ever threatened Britain or the world,
 that was who David Monroe would defeat.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's mallet struck a bellflower and then a different pale
 flower with two more thuds.
 “But then, while I had sometimes played the part of Dark Wizard in my wandering
s, I had never adopted the identity of a full-fledged Dark Lord with underlings
 and a political agenda.
 I had no practice at the task, and I was mindful of the story of Dark Evangel
 and the disaster of her first public appearance.
 According to what she said afterward, she had meant to call herself the
 Walking Catastrophe and the Apostle of Darkness, but in the excitement
 of the moment she introduced herself as the Apostrophe of Darkness instead.
 After that she had to ruin two entire villages before anyone took her seriously.
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“So you decided to try a small-scale experiment first,” Harry said.
 A sickness rose up in him, because in that moment Harry 
\emph on
understood,
\emph default
 he saw himself reflected; the next step was just what Harry himself would
 have done, if he'd had no trace of ethics whatsoever, if he'd been that
 empty inside.
 “You created a disposable identity, to learn how the ropes worked, and
 get your mistakes out of the way.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed.
 Before becoming a truly terrible Dark Lord for David Monroe to fight, I
 first created for practice the persona of a Dark Lord with
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

such as would appear in a story meant for children, with a snakelike face
 and
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset

 glowing red eyes, pointlessly cruel to his underlings, pursuing a political
 agenda of naked personal ambition combined with blood purism as argued
 by drunks in Knockturn Alley.
 My first underlings were hired in a tavern, given cloaks and skull masks,
 and told to introduce themselves as Death Eaters.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The sick sense of understanding deepened, in the pit of Harry's stomach.
 “And you called yourself Voldemort.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Just so, General Chaos.” Professor Quirrell was grinning, from where he
 stood by the cauldron.
 “I wanted it to be an anagram of my name, but that would only have worked
 if I'd conveniently been given the middle name of `Marvolo', and then it
 would have been a stretch.
 Our actual middle name is Morfin, if you're curious.
 But I digress.
 I thought Voldemort's career would last only a few months, a year at the
 longest, before the Aurors brought down his underlings and the disposable
 Dark Lord vanished.
 As you perceive, I had vastly overestimated my competition.
 And I could not 
\emph on
quite
\emph default
 bring myself to torture my underlings when they brought me bad news, no
 matter what Dark Lords did in plays.
 I could not 
\emph on
quite
\emph default
 manage to argue the tenets of blood purism as incoherently as if I were
 a drunk in Knockturn Alley.
 I was not trying to be clever when I sent my underlings on their missions,
 but neither did I give them entirely pointless orders
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Professor Quirrell gave a rueful grin that, in another context, might
 have been called charming.
 “One month after that, Bellatrix Black prostrated herself before me, and
 after three months Lucius Malfoy was negotiating with me over glasses of
 expensive Firewhiskey.
 I sighed, gave up all hope for wizardkind, and began as David Monroe to
 oppose this fearsome Lord Voldemort.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And then what happened
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A snarl contorted Professor Quirrell's face.
 “The absolute inadequacy of every single institution in the civilization
 of magical Britain is what happened! You cannot comprehend it, boy! I cannot
 comprehend it! It has to be seen and even then it cannot be believed! You
 will have observed, perhaps, that of your fellow students who speak of
 their family's occupations, three in four seem to mention jobs in some
 part or another of the Ministry.
 You will wonder how a country can manage to employ three of its four citizens
 in bureaucracy.
 The answer is that if they did not all prevent each other from doing their
 jobs, none of them would have any work left to do! The Aurors were competent
 as individual fighters, they did fight Dark Wizards and only the best survived
 to train new recruits, but their leadership was in absolute disarray.
 The Ministry was so busy routing papers that the country had 
\emph on
no
\emph default
 effective opposition to Voldemort's attacks except myself, Dumbledore,
 and a handful of untrained irregulars.
 A shiftless, incompetent, cowardly layabout, Mundungus Fletcher, was considered
 a key asset in the Order of the Phoenix -- because, being otherwise unemployed,
 he did not need to juggle another job! I tried weakening Voldemort's attacks,
 to see if it was 
\emph on
possible
\emph default
 for him to lose; at once the Ministry committed fewer Aurors to oppose
 me! I had read Mao's Little Red Book, I had trained my Death Eaters in
 guerrilla tactics -- for nothing! For nothing! I was attacking all of magical
 Britain and in every engagement my forces 
\emph on
outnumbered
\emph default
 their opposition! In desperation, I ordered my Death Eaters to systematically
 assassinate every single incompetent managing the Department of Magical
 Law Enforcement.
 One paper-pusher after another volunteered to accept higher positions despite
 the fate of their predecessors, gleefully rubbing their hands at the prospect
 of promotion.
 Every one of them thought they would cut a deal with Lord Voldemort on
 the side.
 It took 
\emph on
seven months
\emph default
 to murder our way through them all, and not a single Death Eater asked
 why we were bothering.
 And then, even with Bartemius Crouch risen to Director and Amelia Bones
 as Head Auror, it was still too little.
 I could have done better fighting 
\emph on
alone.

\emph default
 Dumbledore's aid was not worth his moral restraints, and Crouch's aid was
 not worth his respect for the law.” Professor Quirrell turned up the fire
 beneath the potion.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And eventually,” Harry said through the heart-sickness, “you realized you
 were just having more fun as Voldemort.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It is the least annoying role I have ever played.
 If Lord Voldemort says that something is to be done, people 
\emph on
obey him
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
do not argue.

\emph default
 I did not have to suppress my impulse to Cruciate people being idiots;
 for once it was all part of the role.
 If someone was making the game less pleasant for me, I just said 
\emph on
Avadakedavra
\emph default
 regardless of whether that was strategically wise, and they never bothered
 me again.” Professor Quirrell casually chopped a small worm into bits.
 “But my true epiphany came on a certain day when David Monroe was trying
 to get an entry permit for an Asian instructor in combat tactics, and a
 Ministry clerk denied it, smiling smugly.
 I asked the Ministry clerk if he understood that this measure was meant
 to 
\emph on
save his life
\emph default
 and the Ministry clerk only smiled more.
 Then in fury I threw aside masks and caution, I used my Legilimency, I
 dipped my fingers into the cesspit of his stupidity and 
\emph on
tore
\emph default
 out the truth from his mind.
 I did not understand and I 
\emph on
wanted to understand.

\emph default
 With my command of Legilimency I forced his tiny clerk-brain to live out
 alternatives, seeing what his clerk-brain would think of Lucius Malfoy,
 or Lord Voldemort, or Dumbledore standing in my place.” Professor Quirrell's
 hands had slowed, as he delicately peeled bits and small strips from a
 chunk of candle-wax.
 “What I finally realized that day is complicated, boy, which is why I did
 not understand it earlier in life.
 To you I shall try to describe it anyway.
 Today I know that Dumbledore does not stand at the top of the world, for
 all that he is the Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation.
 People speak ill of Dumbledore openly, they criticize him proudly and to
 his face, in a way they would not dare stand up to Lucius Malfoy.
 
\emph on
You
\emph default
 have acted disrespectfully toward Dumbledore, boy, do you know why you
 did so?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I'm...
 not sure,” Harry said.
 Having Tom Riddle's leftover neural patterns was certainly an obvious hypothesi
s.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Wolves, dogs, even chickens, fight for dominance among themselves.
 What I finally understood, from that clerk's mind, was that to him Lucius
 Malfoy had dominance, Lord Voldemort had dominance, and David Monroe and
 Albus Dumbledore did not.
 By taking the side of good, by professing to abide in the light, we had
 made ourselves 
\emph on
unthreatening.

\emph default
 In Britain, Lucius Malfoy has dominance, for he can call in your loans,
 or send Ministry bureaucrats against your shop, or crucify you in the 
\emph on
Daily Prophet,
\emph default
 if you go openly against his will.
 And the most powerful wizard in the world has no dominance, because everyone
 knows that he is,” Professor Quirrell's lips curled, “
\emph on
a hero out of stories,
\emph default
 relentlessly self-effacing and too humble for vengeance.
 Tell me, child, have you ever seen a drama where the hero, before he consents
 to save his country, demands so much gold as a barrister might receive
 for a court case?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Actually there have been a 
\emph on
lot
\emph default
 of heroes like that in Muggle fiction, I'll name Han Solo just to start
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well, in magical drama it is not so.
 It is all humble heroes like Dumbledore.
 It is the fantasy of the powerful 
\emph on
slave
\emph default
 who will never truly rise above you, never demand your respect, never even
 ask you for pay.
 Do you understand now?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I...
 think so,” Harry said.
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The concept seemed to apply to
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Frodo and Samwise from 
\emph on
Lord of the Rings
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\emph on
,
\emph default
 who
\end_layout

\end_inset


\emph default
 did seem to match the archetype of a completely non-threatening hero.
 “You're saying that's how people 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
thought
\end_layout

\end_inset

 think of Dumbledore? I don't believe the Hogwarts students see him as a
 hobbit.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“In Hogwarts, 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
where
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Dumbledore does punish certain transgressions against his will, so he is
 feared to some degree -- though the students still make free to mock him
 in more than whispers.
 Outside 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
of
\end_layout

\end_inset

 this castle, Dumbledore is sneered at; they began to call him mad, and
 he aped the part like a fool.
 Step into the role of a savior out of plays, and people see you as a slave
 to whose services they are entitled and whom it is their enjoyment to criticize
; for it is the privilege of masters to sit back and call forth helpful
 corrections while the slaves labor.
 Only in the tales of the ancient Greeks, from when men were less sophisticated
 in their delusions, may you see the hero who is also high.
 Hector, Aeneas, those were heroes who retained their right of vengeance
 upon those who insulted them, who could demand gold and jewels in payment
 for their services without sparking indignation.
 And if Lord Voldemort conquered Britain, he might then condescend to show
 himself noble in victory; and nobody would take his goodwill for granted,
 nor chirp corrections at him if his work was not to their liking.
 When he won, he would have 
\emph on
true
\emph default
 respect.
 I understood that day in the Ministry that by envying Dumbledore, I had
 shown myself as deluded as Dumbledore himself.
 I understood that I had been trying for the wrong place all along.
 You should know this to be true, boy, for you have made freer to speak
 ill of Dumbledore than you ever dared speak ill of me.
 Even in your own thoughts, I wager, for instinct runs deep.
 You knew that it might be to your cost to mock the strong and vengeful
 Professor Quirrell, but that there was no cost in disrespecting the weak
 and harmless Dumbledore.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Thank you,” Harry said through the pain, “for that valuable lesson, Professor
 Quirrell, I see that you are right about what my mind was doing.” Though
 Tom Riddle's memories had probably also had something to do with the way
 he had sometimes lashed out at Dumbledore for no good reason, Harry hadn't
 been like that around Professor McGonagall...
 who admittedly had the power to deduct House Points and didn't have Dumbledore'
s air of tolerance...
 no, it was still true, Harry would have been more respectful even in his
 own thoughts if Dumbledore had not seemed 
\emph on
safe
\emph default
 to disrespect.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So that had been David Monroe, and that had been Lord Voldemort...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It still hadn't answered the most puzzling question, and Harry wasn't sure
 that asking it would be wise.
 If, somehow, Lord Voldemort had managed 
\emph on
not to think of it,
\emph default
 and then Professor Quirrell had still managed not to think of it during
 nine years of contemplation, then it wasn't wise to say...
 or maybe it was; the agonies of the Wizarding War had not been good for
 Britain.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry decided, and spoke.
 “One thing that did confuse me was why the Wizarding War lasted so long,”
 Harry ventured.
 “I mean, maybe I'm underestimating the difficulties that were facing Lord
 Voldemort
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You want to know why I did not Imperius some of the stronger wizards who
 could Imperius others, slay the very strongest wizards who could have resisted
 my Imperius, and take over the Ministry in, oh, perhaps three days.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry nodded silently.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell looked contemplative; his hand was sifting grass clippings
 into the cauldron, bit by bit.
 That ingredient, if Harry remembered correctly, was something like four-fifths
 towards the end of the recipe.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I wondered that myself,” the Defense Professor said finally, “when I heard
 Trelawney's prophecy from Snape, and I contemplated the past as well as
 the future.
 If you had asked my past self why he did not use the Imperius, he would
 have spoken of the need to be 
\emph on
seen
\emph default
 to rule, to openly command the Ministry bureaucracy, before it was time
 to turn his eyes outward to other countries.
 He would have remarked on how a quick and silent victory might bring challenges
 later.
 He would have remarked on the obstacle presented by Dumbledore and his
 incredible defensive prowess.
 And he would have had similar excuses for every other quick path he considered.
 Somehow it was never the right time to bring my plans to their final phase,
 there was always one more thing to do first.
 Then I heard the prophecy and I 
\emph on
knew
\emph default
 that it was time, for Time itself was taking notice of me.
 That the span for hesitation was done.
 And I looked back, and realised somehow this had been going on for years.
 I think...” The occasional bit of grass was still dropping down from his hand,
 but Professor Quirrell did not seem to pay it any mind.
 “I thought, when I was contemplating my past beneath the starlight, that
 I had become too accustomed to playing against Dumbledore.
 Dumbledore was intelligent, he tried diligently to be cunning, he did not
 wait for me to strike but presented me with surprises.
 He made bizarre moves that played out in fascinating and unpredictable
 ways.
 In retrospect, there were many obvious plans for destroying Dumbledore;
 but I think some part of me did not want to go back to playing solitaire
 instead of chess.
 It was when I had the prospect of creating another Tom Riddle to plot against,
 someone even more worthy than Dumbledore, that I was first willing to contempla
te the end of my war.
 Yes, in retrospect that sounds stupid, but sometimes our emotions are more
 foolish than we can bring our reason to admit.
 I would never have espoused such a policy deliberately.
 It would have violated Rules Nine, Sixteen, Twenty, and Twenty-two and
 that is too much even if you are enjoying yourself.
 But to repeatedly decide that there was one more thing left to be done,
 one more advantage left to be gained, one more piece that I simply 
\emph on
had
\emph default
 to move into place, before abandoning an enjoyable time in my life and
 moving on to the more tedious rulership of Britain...
 well, even I am not immune to a mistake like that, if I do not realize
 that I am making it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And that was when Harry knew what was going to happen at the end of this,
 after the Philosopher's Stone had been retrieved.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the end of this, Professor Quirrell was going to kill him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell didn't want to kill him.
 It was possible that Harry was the only person in the world against whom
 Professor Quirrell 
\emph on
wouldn't
\emph default
 be able to use a Killing Curse.
 But Professor Quirrell thought he had to do it, for whatever reason.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That was why Professor Quirrell had decided that it was necessary to brew
 the 
\emph on
potion of effulgence
\emph default
 the long way.
 That was why Professor Quirrell had been so easily negotiated into answering
 these questions, into finally talking about his life with someone who might
 understand.
 Just like Lord Voldemort had delayed the end of the Wizarding War to play
 longer against Dumbledore.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry couldn't exactly recall what Professor Quirrell had said earlier about
 not killing Harry.
 It hadn't been anything straightforward along the lines of `I am absolutely
 not planning to kill you in any way, shape, or form unless you positively
 insist on doing something stupid'.
 Harry had been reluctant himself to push the promise too far and insist
 on unambiguous terms because Harry had already known that he would need
 to neutralize Lord Voldemort and had expected more precise language to
 reveal that fact, if they tried to exchange truly binding promises.
 So there certainly would have been loopholes, whatever had been said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was no particular shock to the realization, just an increased sense
 of urgency; some part of Harry had already known this, and had simply been
 waiting for an excuse to make it known to deliberation.
 There had been too many things said here that Professor Quirrell would
 not reveal to anyone with an expected lifespan measured in more than hours.
 The overwhelming isolation and loneliness of the life Professor Quirrell
 had described might explain why he was willing to violate his Rules and
 talk with Harry, 
\emph on
given
\emph default
 that Harry was going to die soon and that the world did not actually work
 like a play where the villain disclosing his plans would always fail to
 kill the hero afterward.
 But Harry's death certainly had to be in those future plans somewhere.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed, controlling his breathing.
 Professor Quirrell had just added a tuft of horsehair to the 
\emph on
potion of effulgence,
\emph default
 and that was very late in the potion, if Harry remembered correctly.
 There weren't many bellflowers left in the heap to be added, either.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It was probably time to stop worrying so much about risk and play this conversat
ion less conservatively, all things considered.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“If I point out one of Lord Voldemort's mistakes,” Harry said, “does he
 punish me for it?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell lifted his eyebrows.
 “Not if the mistake is a real one.
 I do not suggest that you moralise at me.
 But I would not curse the bearer of bad news, nor the subordinate who makes
 an honest attempt to point out a problem.
 Even as Lord Voldemort I could never bring myself to that stupidity.
 Of course, there were some fools who mistook my policy for weakness, who
 tried to thrust themselves forward by pushing me down in their public counsel,
 thinking me obliged to tolerate it as criticism.” Professor Quirrell smiled
 reminiscently.
 “The Death Eaters were better off without them, and I do not advise you
 make the same mistake.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry nodded, a slight shiver going through him.
 “Um, when you told me about what happened in Godric's Hollow, on Halloween
 night, in 1981 I mean, um...
 I thought I saw another flaw in your reasoning.
 A way you could have avoided disaster.
 But, um, I think you have a blind spot, a class of strategies you don't
 consider, so you didn't see it even afterward
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I hope you are not about to say anything stupid along the lines of `don't
 try to kill people',” Professor Quirrell said.
 “I shall be unhappy if that is the case.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Not valuess difference.
 True misstake, given your goalss.
 Will you hurt me, if I act the part of the teacher toward you, and teach
 lessson? Or if misstake is ssimple and obviousss, and makess you feel sstupid?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
No,
\emph default
” hissed Professor Quirrell.
 “
\emph on
Not if lessson iss true.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed.
 “Um.
 Why didn't you test the horcrux system before you actually had to use it?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Test it?” said Professor Quirrell.
 He looked up from the brewing potion, and indignation came into his voice.
 “What do you mean, 
\emph on
test it?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Why didn't you test if the horcrux system was working correctly, before
 you needed it on Halloween?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell looked disgusted.
 “You ridiculous -- I didn't want to 
\emph on
die,
\emph default
 Mr.
 Potter, and that was the only way to test my great creation! What good
 would it have done to risk my life sooner rather than later? How would
 I have been better off?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed a lump in his throat.
 “
\emph on
There wass way for you to tesst your horcrux ssysstem without dying.

\emph default
 The general lesson is important.
 Do you see it now?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No,” Professor Quirrell said after a while.
 The Defense Professor gently crumbled one of the last bellflowers together
 with a strand of long blonde hair and then dropped it into the potion,
 which was bubbling brighter, now.
 Only two more bellflowers remained on the Potions table.
 “And I do hope your lesson is a sensible one, for your sake.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Suppose, Professor, that I learned how to cast the improved horcrux spell
 and I was willing to use it.
 What would I do with it?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell answered at once.
 “You would find some person whom you found morally abhorrent and whose
 death you could convince yourself would save other lives, and murder them
 to create a horcrux.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And then what?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Make more horcruxes,” said the Defense Professor.
 He picked up a jar of what looked like dragon scales.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Before that,” Harry said.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After a time the Defense Professor shook his head.
 “I still do not see it, and you will cease this game and tell me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I would make horcruxes for my friends.
 If you'd ever really cared about one single other person in the entire
 world, if there'd been just one person who gave your immortality 
\emph on
meaning,
\emph default
 someone that you wanted to live forever 
\emph on
with
\emph default
 you
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Harry's throat choked.
 “Then, then the idea of making a horcrux for someone else wouldn't have
 been such a counterintuitive thought.” Harry was blinking hard.
 “You have a blind spot around strategies that involve doing nice things
 for other people, to the point where it stops you from achieving your selfish
 values.
 You think...
 it's not your style, I suppose.
 That...
 particular part of your self-image...
 is what cost you those nine years.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The dropper of mint oil that the Defense Professor was holding added liquid
 to the cauldron, drip by drip.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I see...” the Defense Professor said slowly.
 “I see.
 I should have taught Rabastan the advanced horcrux ritual, and forced him
 to test the invention.
 Yes, that is supremely obvious in retrospect.
 For that matter, I could have ordered Rabastan to try marking himself onto
 some disposable infant, to see what happened, before I took myself to Godric's
 Hollow to create you.” Professor Quirrell shook his head bemusedly.
 “Well.
 I am glad I am realizing this now and not ten years earlier; I had enough
 to chide myself for at that time.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You don't see nice ways to do 
\emph on
the things you want to do,
\emph default
” Harry said.
 His ears heard a note of desperation in his own voice.
 “Even when a nice strategy would be 
\emph on
more effective
\emph default
 you don't see it because you have a self-image of 
\emph on
not being nice.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That is a fair observation,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Indeed, now that you have pointed it out, I have just now thought of some
 nice things I can do this very day, to further my agenda.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry just looked at him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell was smiling.
 “Your lesson is a good one, Mr.
 Potter.
 From now on, until I learn the trick of it, I shall keep diligent watch
 for cunning strategies that involve doing kindnesses for other people.
 Go and practice acts of goodwill, perhaps, until my mind goes there easily.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cold chills ran down Harry's spine.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell had said this without the slightest visible hesitation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lord Voldemort was absolutely certain that he could never be redeemed.
 He wasn't the tiniest bit afraid of it happening to him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second-to-last bellflower was dropped into the potion, gently.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Any other valuable lessons you would like to teach to Lord Voldemort, boy?”
 said Professor Quirrell.
 He was looking up from the potion, and grinning as though he knew exactly
 what Harry was thinking.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes,” Harry said, his voice almost breaking.
 “If your goal is to obtain happiness, then doing nice things for other
 people feels better than doing them for yourself
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Do you 
\emph on
really
\emph default
 think I never thought of that, boy?” The smile had vanished.
 “Do you think I am stupid? After graduating Hogwarts I wandered the world
 for years, before I returned to Britain as Lord Voldemort.
 I have put on more faces than I bothered counting.
 Do you think I never tried to play the hero, just to see how it would feel?
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
I sought out a forlorn hellhole ruled over by a Dark Wizard, and freed the
 wretched inhabitants from their bondage.
 They wept tears of gratitude for me.
 It did not feel like anything in particular.
 I stayed about and killed the next five Dark Wizards to try taking command
 of the place -- yes, I was indeed Alexander Chernyshov, if you happen to
 have heard of him.
 I even spent my own Galleons
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Have you come across the name of Alexander Chernyshov? Under that guise,
 I sought out a forlorn hellhole ruled over by a Dark Wizard, and freed
 the wretched inhabitants from their bondage.
 They wept tears of gratitude for me.
 It did not feel like anything in particular.
 I stayed about and killed the next five Dark Wizards to try taking command
 of the place.
 I spent my own Galleons -- well, not my own Galleons, but the same principle
 applies -- to prettify their little country and introduce a semblance of
 order.
 They groveled all the more, and named one in three of their infants Alexander.
 I still felt nothing, so I nodded to myself, wrote it off as a fair try,
 and went upon my way.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And were you happy as Lord Voldemort, then?” Harry's voice had risen, grown
 wild.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell hesitated, then shrugged.
 “It appears you already know the answer to that.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then 
\emph on
why?
\emph default
 Why be Voldemort if it 
\emph on
doesn't even make you happy?
\emph default
” Harry's voice broke.
 “I'm 
\emph on
you
\emph default
, I'm based on you, so 
\emph on
I know
\emph default
 that Professor Quirrell isn't just a mask! I 
\emph on
know
\emph default
 he's somebody you really could have been! Why not just stay that way? Take
 your curse off the Defense Position and just 
\emph on
stay here
\emph default
, use the Philosopher's Stone to take David Monroe's shape and let the real
 Quirinus Quirrell go free, if you say you'll stop killing people I'll swear
 not to tell anyone who you really are, just 
\emph on
be Professor Quirrell,
\emph default
 for always! Your students 
\emph on
would
\emph default
 appreciate you, my father's students appreciate 
\emph on
him
\emph default

\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell was chuckling over the cauldron as he stirred it.
 “There are perhaps fifteen thousand wizards living in magical Britain,
 child.
 There used to be more.
 There's a reason they're afraid to speak my name.
 You'd forgive me that because you liked my Battle Magic lessons?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Seconded,
\emph default
 said Harry's inner Hufflepuff.
 
\emph on
Seriously, what the hell?
\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry kept his head raised, though it was trembling.
 “It's not my place to forgive anything you've done.
 But it's better than another war.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ha,” said the Defense Professor.
 “If you ever find a Time-Turner that goes back forty years and can alter
 history, be sure to tell Dumbledore that before he rejects Tom Riddle's
 application for the Defense position.
 But alas, I fear that Professor Riddle would not have found lasting happiness
 in Hogwarts.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Why not?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Because I still would've been surrounded by idiots, and I wouldn't have
 been able to kill them,” Professor Quirrell said mildly.
 “Killing idiots is my great joy in life, and I'll thank you not to speak
 ill of it until you've tried it for yourself.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“There's 
\emph on
something
\emph default
 that would make you happier than that,” Harry said, his voice breaking
 again.
 “There has to be.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Why?” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Is this some scientific law I have not yet encountered? Tell me of it.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry opened his mouth, but couldn't find any words, there had to be something
 
\emph on
had to be something
\emph default
 if he could just find the right thing to say
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

-- 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And 
\emph on
you
\emph default
,” said Professor Quirrell, “have no right to speak of happiness either.
 Happiness is not what you hold precious above all.
 You decided that in the beginning, all the way back in the beginning of
 this year, when the Sorting Hat offered you Hufflepuff.
 Which I know about, because I received a similar offer and warning all
 those years ago, and I refused it just as you did.
 Beyond this there is little more to say, between Tom Riddles.” The Defense
 Professor turned back to the cauldron.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before Harry could think of any way to reply, Professor Quirrell dropped
 in the last bellflower, and a burst of glowing bubbles boiled up from the
 cauldron.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I believe we are done here,” Professor Quirrell said.
 “If you have further questions, they must wait.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry shakily rose to his feet; even as Professor Quirrell took up the cauldron
 and poured out a ridiculously huge volume of effulgent liquid, more than
 seemed like it could fit in a dozen cauldrons, onto the purple fire that
 guarded the doorway.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The purple fire winked out.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Now for the Mirror,” said Professor Quirrell, and he drew forth the Cloak
 of Invisibility from his robes, and floated it to drop before Harry's shoes.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
