#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Reflections, Part II
\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
T
\end_layout

\end_inset

he
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 grimness on Albus Dumbledore's face lasted only an instant before giving
 way to bewilderment.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Quirinus? What
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--”
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And then there was a pause.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Well,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 said Albus Dumbledore.
 “I do feel stupid.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I should hope so,” Professor Quirrell said easily; if he had been at all
 shocked himself at being caught, it did not show.
 A casual wave of his hand changed his robes back to a Professor's clothing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dumbledore's grimness had returned and redoubled.
 “There I am, searching so hard for Voldemort's shade, never noticing that
 the Defense Professor of Hogwarts is a sickly, half-dead victim possessed
 by a spirit far more powerful than himself.
 I would call it senility, if so many others had not missed it as well.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Quite,” said Professor Quirrell.
 He lifted his eyebrows.
 “Really, am I that hard to recognize without the glowing red eyes?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Oh, yes indeed,” Albus Dumbledore said in level tones.
 “Your acting was perfect; I confess myself utterly deceived.
 Quirinus Quirrell seemed -- what is the term I am looking for? Ah yes,
 that is the word.
 He seemed sane.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell chuckled; he looked for all the world as though the two
 of them were just having a casual conversation.
 “I never was insane, you know.
 Lord Voldemort was just another game for me, the same as Professor Quirrell.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Albus Dumbledore did not look like he was enjoying a casual chat.
 “I thought you might say that.
 I regret to inform you, Tom, that anyone who can bring himself to act the
 part of Voldemort 
\emph on
is
\emph default
 Voldemort.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, raising an admonishing finger.
 “There is a loophole in that reasoning, old man.
 Anyone who acts the part of Voldemort must be what moralists call `evil',
 on this we agree.
 But perhaps the real me is completely, utterly, irredeemably evil in an
 interestingly different fashion from what I was pretending with Voldemort
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I find,” Albus Dumbledore ground out, “that I do not care.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then you must think yourself to be rid of me very soon,” said Professor
 Quirrell.
 “How interesting.
 My immortal existence must depend on discovering what trap you have set,
 and finding a way to escape from it, as soon as possible.” Professor Quirrell
 paused, as though for effect.
 “But let us pointlessly delay to talk of other matters first.
 How did you come to be waiting inside the Mirror? I thought you would be
 elsewhere.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I was there,” Albus Dumbledore said, “and 
\emph on
also
\emph default
 inside this mirror, unfortunately for you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah,” said Professor Quirrell, and sighed.
 “I suppose my little distraction was for naught, then.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And the rage of Albus Dumbledore was no longer leashed.
 “
\emph on
Distraction?
\emph default
” roared Dumbledore, his sapphire eyes tight with fury.
 “
\emph on
You killed Master Flamel for a distraction?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell looked dismayed.
 “I am wounded by the injustice of your accusation.
 I did not kill the one you know as Flamel.
 I simply commanded another to do so.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
How could you? Even you, how could you? He was the library of all our lore!
 Secrets you have forever lost to wizardry!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was an edge to Professor Quirrell's smile, now.
 “You know, I still do not comprehend how your twisted mind can consider
 it acceptable for Flamel to live forever, but when I try for the same it
 makes me a monster.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Master Flamel never descended into 
\emph on
immortality!
\emph default
 He
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Dumbledore choked.
 “He only stayed awake past his evening, for our sakes, through his long,
 long day
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I don't know if you recall this,” Professor Quirrell said, his voice airy,
 “but do you recall that day in your office with Tom Riddle? The one where
 I begged you, where I went down on my knees and begged you, to introduce
 me to Nicholas Flamel so that I could ask to become his apprentice, to
 someday make for myself the Philosopher's Stone? That was my last attempt
 to be a good person, if you are curious.
 You told me no, and gave me a lecture on how unvirtuous it was to be afraid
 of death.
 I went from your office in bitterness and in fury.
 I reasoned that if I was to be called evil in any case, just for not wanting
 to die, then I might as well be evil; and one month later I killed Abigail
 Myrtle to pursue immortality by other means.
 Even when I knew more of Flamel, I remained quite put out with your hypocrisy;
 and for that reason I tormented you and yours more than I otherwise would
 have done.
 I have often felt that you ought to know this, but we never had a chance
 to talk frankly.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I decline,” said Albus Dumbledore, whose gaze did not waver.
 “I do not accept the tiniest shred of responsibility for what you have
 become.
 That was all, entirely, you and your own decisions.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I am not surprised to hear you say that,” said Professor Quirrell.
 The Defense Professor glanced over to one side, as though at someone standing
 there, though no other person was visible within the room.
 “Well, now I am curious as to what responsibilities you do accept.
 You have access to some unusual power of Divination; that much I deduced
 long ago.
 You made too many nonsensical moves, and the paths by which they worked
 out in your favor were too ridiculous.
 So tell me.
 Were you forewarned of the result, that night of All Hallow's Eve when
 I was vanquished for a time?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I knew,” said Albus Dumbledore, his voice low and cold.
 “For that, I accept responsibility, which is something you will never understan
d.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You arranged for Severus Snape to hear the Prophecy that he brought to
 me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I allowed it to happen,” said Albus Dumbledore.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And there I was, all excited at having finally gained my own foreknowledge.”
 Professor Quirrell shook his head as though in sadness.
 “So the great hero Dumbledore sacrificed his unwitting pawns, Lily and
 James Potter, in order to banish me for a few years.” Professor Quirrell
 again turned his head aside, as though to look at something that couldn't
 be seen.
 “Just to be clear, that is.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Albus Dumbledore's eyes were like stones.
 “James and Lily would have gone willingly to the death, if they had known.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And the little baby?” Professor Quirrell said.
 “Somehow I doubt the Potters would have been so eager to leave him in the
 path of You-Know-Who.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You could scarcely see the flinch.
 “The Boy-Who-Lived came out of it well enough.
 Tried to turn him into 
\emph on
you
\emph default
, did you? Instead you turned yourself into a corpse, and Harry Potter became
 the wizard you should have been.” Now there was something like the usual
 Dumbledore behind the half-moon glasses, a tiny twinkle in those eyes.
 “All of Tom Riddle's icy brilliance, tamed to the service of James and
 Lily's warmth and love.
 I wonder how you felt when you saw what Tom Riddle could have become, if
 he had grown up in a loving family?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell's lips quirked.
 “I was surprised, even shocked, by the abyssal depths of Mr.
 Potter's naivete.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I suppose the humor of the situation would be lost on you.” It was then,
 finally, that Albus Dumbledore smiled.
 “How I laughed when I realised it! When I saw you had made a Good Voldemort
 to oppose the evil one -- ah, how I laughed! I never had the steel for
 my role, but Harry Potter shall be more than equal to it, when he comes
 into his power.” Albus Dumbledore's smile disappeared.
 “Though I suppose Harry shall have to find some other Dark Lord to vanquish
 for it, since you will not be there.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah, yes.
 That.” Professor Quirrell made to walk away from the Mirror, and seemed
 to halt just before reaching the point where the Mirror would no longer
 have reflected him, if it had been reflecting him.
 “Interesting.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dumbledore's smile was colder, now.
 “No, Tom.
 You are not going anywhere.
 Nothing that is reflected on your side of the Mirror can leave it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell nodded.
 “What have you done, exactly?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You have refused death,” said Dumbledore, “and if I destroyed your body,
 your spirit would only wander back, like a dumb animal that cannot understand
 it is being sent away.
 So I am sending you outside Time, to a frozen instant from which neither
 I nor any other can return you.
 Perhaps Harry Potter will be able to retrieve you someday, if prophecy
 speaks true.
 He may wish to discuss with you just who is at fault for the deaths of
 his parents.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hm,” said Professor Quirrell.
 The Defense Professor had paced past where Harry stood, watching mute and
 with something like horror, only to halt again at the other edge of the
 mirror.
 “As I suspected.
 You are using what the tale of Topherius Chang names as the Process of
 the Timeless.
 If that legend speaks true, then not even you can stop the process, now
 that it has been in motion this long.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Indeed,” said Albus Dumbledore.
 But his eyes were suddenly wary.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And Harry, from where he stood in silence and controlled terror, could feel
 it in the air, the sense of a 
\emph on
presence
\emph default
 gathering around him, in the Mirror's field.
 Something more alien than magic, everything about it incomprehensible except
 for the fact of its strangeness and the fact of its power.
 It had been slow but now it was waxing faster, that presence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But you could still reverse the effect, if Chang's tale is true,” said
 Professor Quirrell.
 “Banish what is on the other side of the Mirror instead.
 Send yourself, instead of me, into that frozen instant.
 If you wanted to, that is.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And why would I do that?” Albus Dumbledore's voice was tight.
 “I suppose you are going to tell me that you have taken hostages? That
 was futile, Tom, you 
\emph on
fool!
\emph default
 You utter 
\emph on
fool!
\emph default
 You should have known that I would give you nothing for any hostages you
 had taken.
 Goodbye, and I suppose I shall learn after what your folly has wrought.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You always were one step too slow,” said Professor Quirrell.
 “Allow me to introduce you to my hostage.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another presence invaded the air around Harry, a crawling sensation all
 over his flesh as another Tom Riddle's magic passed very close to his skin.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Cloak of Invisibility was torn away from him, and the shimmering black
 Cloak flew away from him, through the air.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Quirrell caught it, and swiftly drew it over himself; in less
 than a second he had pulled down the Cloak's hood over his head, and disappeare
d.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Albus Dumbledore staggered, as though some essential support had been removed
 from him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Harry Potter,” the Headmaster breathed.
 “
\emph on
What are you doing here?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry stared at the image of Albus Dumbledore, on whose face utter shock
 and utter dismay were warring.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The guilt and the shame were too much, too much, hitting Harry all at once,
 and he could feel the incomprehensible presence around him rising to a
 peak.
 Harry knew without words that there was no time left, and that he was done.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It's my fault,” Harry said in a tiny voice, from whatever part of him had
 taken over his throat in the final extremity.
 “I was stupid.
 I've always been stupid.
 You mustn't rescue me.
 Goodbye.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Why, look at that,” sang out Professor Quirrell's voice from the empty
 air, “I don't seem to have a reflection any more.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No,” said Albus Dumbledore.
 “No, no, 
\emph on
\noun on
no
\noun default
!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Into the hand of the Albus Dumbledore flew from his sleeve his long, dark-grey
 wand, and in his other hand, as though from nowhere, appeared a short rod
 of dark stone.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Albus Dumbledore threw these both violently aside, just as the building
 sense of power rose to an unbearable peak, and then disappeared.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Mirror returned to showing the ordinary reflection of a gold-lit room
 of white stone, without any trace of where Albus Dumbledore had been.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
