#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Failure, Part II
\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
E
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Argument 3
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
ven
\end_layout

\end_inset

 as Harry had raised the gun, he'd 
\emph on
known
\emph default
 he was making a mistake, his forebrain saw it and tried to stop his hand,
 but somehow the sick certainty didn't propagate fast enough to prevent
 his finger from pulling the trigger
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The echo of the shots died away within the graveyard.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A fraction of a second before Harry had pulled the trigger, Voldemort had
 jabbed his wand downward, and a wide wall of dirt had shot up between them
 from the graveyard earth, intercepting all three bullets.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An instant after that, pain flared in Harry's scar, a crawling feeling came
 close to his skin; and then Harry's pouch, clothes, gun, everything except
 his wand disappeared, leaving him naked but for the wand still in his right
 hand, and the glasses he'd Charmed to stick to his nose.
 The steel ring upon his left pinky finger was yanked off hard enough to
 scrape skin, taking the Transfigured jewel with it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

That,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 said the voice of Voldemort from behind the dirt wall, “was 
\emph on
absolutely
\emph default
 predictable.
 Do you really think I would shout it aloud for you to hear, if my immortality
 were disrupted? Really, stupid child? Lower your wand, do not raise it
 up again at any time, or you die upon the spot.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry swallowed, and pointed his wand downward.
 “You would have been disappointed in me,” Harry said, his own voice now
 unusually high, “if I'd missed an opportunity like that, I mean.” There
 was no time to think, and Harry's mouth was operating on autopilot for
 trying to placate evil overlords that might have paternal feelings for
 you and whom you'd just failed to assassinate.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort stepped around from behind the dirt wall, smiling that horrible
 smile that seemed to contain too many teeth.
 “I promised not to raise my hand or wand against you, child, if you did
 not raise your hand or wand against me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I used bullets,” Harry said, his voice still high.
 “That's not a fist or a spell.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“My curse thinks differently.
 That is the puzzle piece that you missed.
 Did you think I would leave the peace between us to mere fortune? Before
 I created you, I invoked a curse upon myself and all other Tom Riddles
 who would descend from me.
 A curse to enforce that none of us would threaten the others' immortality,
 so long as the other made no attempt upon our own.
 Typical of that ridiculous fiasco, the curse seems to have ended up binding
 me, but taking no hold upon the infant with his self so lost.” A low, lethal
 chuckle.
 “
\emph on
But you tried to end my true life jusst then, sstupid child.
 Now cursse iss lifted, and I may kill you any time I wissh.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I see,” Harry said.
 He did see; 
\emph on
that
\emph default
 was why Voldemort had told him about his horcrux system in the first place,
 just to set up the moment when Harry knowingly tried to violate his immortality.
 Harry's mind was frantically churning through options, none of which seemed
 helpful.
 His pouch, his clothes, Harry saw by the moonlight that they all now lay
 in another heap by the altar, out of reach.
 “And now you kill me?” Harry still had his wand, presumably the Dark Lord
 couldn't cast his own magic on that, or his glasses, because of the disharmony.
 
\emph on
Cast my own spell first? No, Voldemort just jabs his wand downward to make
 another shield, then shoots me -- what else is there? 
\noun on
What else
\noun default
?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Still a fool.
 If no further matters remained between us, I would already have killed
 you.” The dirt wall crumbled at another gesture of the wand, and Voldemort
 moved smoothly back toward the heap of items by the altar.
 The Dark Lord stretched out a hand, and the diary of Roger Bacon flew to
 him.
 “
\emph on
Thiss iss, indeed, horcrux of girl-child, my ssuperior verssion.
\emph default
” In his other hand appeared a parchment.
 “
\emph on
Thiss iss ritual for ressurrecting her, if it musst be done again.
 Insstructionss are honesst, no trapss.
 Remember that girl-child'ss sspirit cannot float free like ghosst, Ressurrectio
n Sstone iss my horcrux, not herss.
 Do not losse her horcrux, or her sspirit may be trapped within it.
\emph default
” Voldemort reached down, picked up Harry's pouch, fed both the diary and
 the parchment into it.
 “
\emph on
Remember that, in casse something goess wrong with next movess.
\emph default
”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I don't understand what is happening,” Harry said.
 There was nothing else left.
 “Please explain to me.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Dark Lord was now regarding Harry with a grim look.
 “
\emph on
When girl-child died, wass in company of sschool'ss Sseer, heard prophecy
 sspoken that you would become force of vasst desstruction.
 You would become threat beyond imagination, beyond apocalypsse.
 That iss why I went to ssuch lengthss to undo my killing of girl-child,
 keep it undone.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Are,” what “are you sure,” what.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Dare not ssay sspecificss to you.
 Prophecy I heard of mysself led me to fulfill it.
 Have not forgotten that dissasster.
\emph default
” Voldemort backed further away from Harry, red slitted eyes fixed upon
 the Boy-Who-Lived, gun unwavering in the left hand.
 “
\emph on
All thiss, all I have done, iss to ssmassh that desstiny at every point
 of intervention.
 If ssome fate makess me fail in what comess next, idiot-child of foretold
 desstruction, then you musst kill yoursself to ssave girl-child.
 Elsse all you claim to value diess by your own hand.
\emph default
”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I,” Harry's voice went up an octave, “I,” another octave, “I 
\emph on
really really wouldn't do that, seriously!”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Ssilence, fool.
 Remain ssilent unlesss given leave by me to sspeak.
 Keep your wand pointed down and do not raisse it unlesss told.
 Elsse you die upon the sspot, and mark that I ssaid that in Parsseltongue.”
 
\emph default
Voldemort reached into the altar again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For a second Harry's mind couldn't process what he was seeing, and then
 he saw that Voldemort was holding a human arm, severed near the shoulder;
 it seemed too thin, that arm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Dark Lord pressed his wand to the flesh above the severed arm's elbow,
 and the fingers twitched, twitched like they were alive; by dim moonlight
 Harry saw a darker mark appear on that flesh, just above the elbow.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Seconds later the first hooded figure appeared inside the graveyard with
 the popping sound of an Apparition.
 A moment after that came another pop, and then another.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The hooded figures wore silver skull masks, and moonlight fled from the
 robes beneath them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Master!” cried one of the black robes, the third to arrive.
 The voice was of peculiar timbre, from behind the silver skull mask.
 “Master -- it has been so long -- we had lost hope
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Silence!” shouted the high voice of the Dark Lord Voldemort.
 Every trace of Professor Quirrell was now gone from the too-tall figure.
 “Train your wand upon the Boy-Who-Lived, and watch him! Do not be distracted,
 not by anything! Stun him at once if he moves, if he begins to speak!”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More pops.
 Between graves, behind a tree, in all the shadowy spaces, more black robes
 were Apparating, all hooded and masked.
 Some of them voiced exclamations of joy, many of those sounding rather
 forced; others moved forwards as though to greet their Master.
 Voldemort gave them all the same instruction, except that some were commanded
 to Cruciate Harry Potter if he moved, others to restrain the Boy-Who-Lived
 if he moved, others told to fire hexes and curses, others told to cancel
 his magic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thirty-seven pops, Harry counted before the black robes and skull masks
 seemed to stop arriving.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All of them were now holding their wands pointed at Harry, aligned in a
 semicircle before him, where they wouldn't get into each other's lines
 of fire.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry continued pointing his wand downward, insofar as he had been told
 that, if he tried to raise it, he would die.
 He remained silent, insofar as he had been told that if he tried to speak,
 he would die.
 He tried not to shiver in the falling night temperatures, for he was naked,
 and it was getting colder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
You know,
\emph default
 said the last voice within Harry, the voice of hope, 
\emph on
I think this is getting pretty bad even by my standards.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
