#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Final Exam
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:113-Final-Exam"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
T
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Argument 3
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
he
\end_layout

\end_inset

 gibbous moon riding higher in the cloudless sky, the stars and wash of
 the Milky Way visible in all their majesty within the darkness: All these
 illuminated thirty-seven skull masks gleaming above black robes, and the
 darker-clad Lord Voldemort, whose eyes shone red.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Welcome, my Death Eaters,” spoke Lord Voldemort's voice, smooth and high
 and terrible.
 “No, do not look at me, you fools! Eyes upon the Potter child! Ten years,
 it has been, ten years since we last met.
 Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday...” The Dark Lord Voldemort
 came near to one hooded figure, tapped fingers upon the mask.
 “In a hastily Transfigured 
\emph on
mockery
\emph default
 of a Death Eater's true armor, with a childish Charm to distort your voice.
 Explain, Mr.
 Honor.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Our old masks and robes...” said the robe whose mask the Dark Lord had tapped.
 Even through the distorting timbre of the mask, the fear in it was audible.
 “We...
 we were not fighting in them, Master, with you gone...
 so I did not maintain their enchantments...
 and then you summoned me to appear here, masked, and I...
 I always held faith in you, Master, but I did not know you would return
 this very day...
 I am truly sorry to have displeased you...” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Enough.” The Dark Lord moved on to stand behind another figure, that seemed
 to tremble, though it kept its mask facing the Boy-Who-Lived, and its wand
 held level.
 “I might think more kindly of such neglect, if you had pursued my agenda
 by other means...
 Mr.
 Counsel.
 Yet I return to find -- what? A country conquered in my name?” The high
 voice climbed higher.
 “No! I find you playing ordinary politics in the Wizengamot! I find your
 brothers still abandoned in Azkaban! It is a disappointment to me...
 I confess myself disappointed...
 You thought I was gone, the Dark Mark dead, and you forsook my purpose.
 Is that right, Mr.
 Counsel?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No, Master!” cried that masked figure.
 “We knew you would return -- but, but we could not fight Dumbledore without
 you
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Crucio.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A horrible scream tore out of the mask, piercing the night, it continued
 for long, long seconds.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Get up,” the Dark Lord said to the figure that had collapsed upon the ground.
 “Keep your wand on Harry Potter.
 
\emph on
Do not lie to me again.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes, Master,” sobbed the figure, as it pushed itself to its feet.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort resumed pacing behind the black-robed figures.
 “I suppose you are also wondering what Harry Potter is doing here...
 Why he is a guest at my rebirthing party.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I know, Master!” said one of the robes.
 “You mean to prove your power by killing him, in front of us all, to leave
 no doubt as to which of you is stronger! To show how your Killing Curse
 can slay even this so-called Boy-Who-Lived!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was a pause.
 None of the cloaked figures dared to speak.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Slowly, the Dark Lord Voldemort, in his high-collared shirt and dark robes,
 turned to face the Death Eater who had spoken.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“That,” whispered Voldemort in a voice chill as death, “is a little too
 much folly for me to credit, Mr.
 Sallow.
 You heard that theory of how I died, and tried to provoke me into repeating
 a mistake?” Lord Voldemort was floating, rising high off the ground.
 “I suppose you came to prefer your laziness to my mastery, 
\emph on
Macnair?
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Death Eater who'd spoken was suddenly surrounded by a blue haze.
 He spun, slashed his wand at the Dark Lord, and cried “
\emph on
Avada Kedavra!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort simply tilted to one side in midair, dodging the green bolt.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Avada Kedavra!
\emph default
” cried the Death Eater.
 His hand that didn't hold a wand was making other gestures, further colors
 and layers building up in his shielding haze with each gesture completed.
 “Help me, my brothers! If we all
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Death Eater fell in seven flaming pieces to the ground, chunks of flesh
 with the cauterized edges still glowing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Eyes and wands on Harry Potter, all of you,” Voldemort repeated, his voice
 low and dangerous.
 “And Macnair acted in sheer stupidity just then, for I command your Marks,
 as I 
\emph on
always
\emph default
 shall.
 
\emph on
I am immortal.
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Master,” said another robe.
 “The girl upon the altar -- is she to serve us for a Dark Revel? She seems
 unworthy of such a joyous occasion.
 I could find better, Master, if you give me leave for just a short time
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No, Mr.
 Friendly,” said Voldemort, sounding rather amused.
 “The little witch you see upon the altar is none other than Hermione Granger
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What?” cried one of the black robes, and then, “I'm sorry, Master, I'm
 sorry, I beg your
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Crucio.
\emph default
” This screaming only lasted a few seconds, and Voldemort had performed
 it as though it were perfunctory.
 Afterward Voldemort's voice returned to low amusement.
 “I have resurrected this mudblood through the Darkest of magics, for my
 own purposes.
 You shall not offer her the slightest trouble, any of you.
 You are better off dead than if I learn my little experiment came to harm
 at your hands.
 This order is absolute, regardless of other circumstances -- even if she
 escapes, let us say.” A cold high laugh, as if at some joke that nobody
 else understood.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Master,” one of the robes said in a faltering voice distorted by his skull
 mask.
 “Master, please -- I would never defy you, I am obedient as you see --
 but Master, I beg you, let me return, the better to serve you later --
 I came here in haste, forsaking -- Master, with so many of us being gone,
 others will wonder, they will mark the absences, who has disappeared.
 Soon there shall be no alibi I can offer.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A cold high laugh.
 “Ah, Mr.
 White, the most delinquent of my servants.
 I have not yet decided if you will survive your punishment.
 I have less need of you than I once did, Mr.
 White.
 In two days' time the Death Eaters shall walk openly.
 My powers have increased, and I have just this day disposed of Dumbledore.”
 More gasps of shock arose from the Death Eaters, Voldemort paid them no
 heed.
 “Tomorrow I shall slay Bones, Crouch, Moody, and Scrimgeour, if they have
 not fled.
 The rest of you shall go into the Ministry and the Wizengamot, and cast
 Imperius Curses as I direct you.
 We are 
\emph on
finished
\emph default
 waiting.
 By tomorrow's nightfall I shall have declared myself Lord Ruler of Britain!”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Intakes of breath rose from the gathered masks, but one figure was laughing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

You find me amusing, Mr.
 Grim?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Apologies, Master,” said the robed figure who had laughed, his wand perfectly
 level upon where Harry stood.
 “I was glad to hear you had dispatched Dumbledore.
 I fled from Britain in cowardly fear of him, having lost faith in your
 return.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort's chuckle resounded within the graveyard.
 “Your candor earns you my mercy, Mr.
 Grim.
 I was surprised to see you here tonight; you are more competent than I
 suspected.
 But before we turn our attention to happier matters, there is a certain
 affair to which we must attend.
 Tell me, Mr.
 Grim, if the Boy-Who-Lived swore an oath to you, might you trust him?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Master...
 I don't understand...” said Mr.
 Grim.
 One or two of the other Death Eaters turned their masks toward Voldemort
 before quickly fixing the skull gaze on Harry.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Answer me,” Voldemort hissed.
 “This is not a trick, Mr.
 Grim, and you 
\emph on
will
\emph default
 answer truthfully or bear the consequences.
 You knew the boy's forebears, did you not? Knew them for straightforward
 folk? If the boy freely chose to swear to you an oath, even knowing you
 for a Death Eater, might you trust in his words? Answer me!” Voldemort's
 voice rose to a shriek.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I...
 yes, Master, I suppose I might...” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Good,” Voldemort said coldly.
 “The potential for trust must exist, to be sacrificed.
 And for the bonder of the Unbreakable Vow...
 which of you shall sacrifice their magic? It shall be quite the long Vow...
 much longer than usual...
 much magic shall be required for that...” Voldemort smiled his awful smile.
 “Mr.
 White shall do.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“No, please! 
\emph on
Master, I beg you!
\emph default
 I served you better than any -- as best I could
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Crucio,
\emph default
” said Voldemort, and Mr.
 White screamed through his mask's distortion for what seemed like a full
 minute.
 “Be grateful if I leave you your life! Now approach the boy, Mr.
 Grim, Mr.
 White.
 From behind him, idiot! You must not block the others' wands! And the rest
 of you, you must fire if Harry Potter tries to run, even if it means striking
 at your fellow Death Eaters.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mr.
 White took time to approach, the black robes seeming to shake, even as
 Mr.
 Grim moved smoothly into position.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What is to be the Vow, Master?” came the voice of Mr.
 Grim.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ah, yes,” Voldemort said.
 The Dark Lord went on pacing behind the semicircle of Death Eaters.
 “Today -- though I hardly expect even you to believe me -- today we are
 doing Merlin's work, my Death Eaters.
 Yes! Before us stands a great danger, who in his blundering folly has been
 prophesied to wreak destruction such as even I can scarcely imagine.
 The Boy-Who-Lived! The boy who frightens 
\emph on
Dementors!
\emph default
 The cattle who believe they own this world should have been more worried
 when they saw that.
 Useless, all of them!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Forgive me
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 said one black robe in a halting voice.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Master -- surely, if that is so -- Master, why don't we just kill him right
 away?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort laughed, a strange bitter laugh.
 When he spoke on his high voice was precise.
 “Here is the oath's intent, Mr.
 Grim, Mr.
 White, Harry Potter.
 Listen well and comprehend the Vow that must be sworn, for its intent is
 also binding, and you three must share an understanding of its meaning.
 You will swear, Harry Potter, not to destroy the world, to take no risks
 when it comes to not destroying the world.
 This Vow may 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 force you into any positive action, on account of that, this Vow does not
 force your hand to any stupidity.
 Do you understand that, Mr.
 Grim, Mr.
 White? We are dealing with a prophecy of destruction.
 A 
\emph on
prophecy!
\emph default
 They can fulfill themselves in twisted ways.
 We must be cautious that this Vow itself does not bring that prophecy about.
 We dare not let this Vow force Harry Potter to stand idly after some disaster
 is already set in motion by his hand, because he must take some lesser
 risk if he tries to stop it.
 Nor must the Vow force him to choose a risk of truly vast destruction,
 over a certainty of lesser destruction.
 But all Harry Potter's 
\emph on
foolishness,
\emph default
” Voldemort's voice climbed, “all his 
\emph on
recklessness,
\emph default
 all his 
\emph on
grandiose schemes
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
good intentions
\emph default
 -- he shall not risk them leading to disaster! He shall not gamble with
 the Earth's fate! No researches that might lead to catastrophe! No unbinding
 of seals, no opening of gates!” Voldemort's voice lowered again.
 “Unless this very Vow itself is somehow leading into the destruction of
 the world, in which case, Harry Potter, you must ignore it in that particular
 regard.
 You will 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 trust yourself alone in making such a determination, you must confide honestly
 and fully in your trusted friend, and see if that one agrees.
 Such is this Vow's meaning and intent.
 It forces only such acts as Harry Potter might choose himself, having learned
 that he is a prophesied instrument of destruction.
 For the capacity for choice must also exist, to be sacrificed.
 Do you understand, Mr.
 White?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I -- I think so -- oh, Master, 
\emph on
please,
\emph default
 do not let the Vow be so long
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Silence, fool, you do a more useful thing this day than you have ever done.
 Mr.
 Grim?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I think, Master, that it must be repeated to me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Voldemort smiled that too-wide smile, and said it all again using different
 words.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And now,” Voldemort said coldly, “Harry Potter, you will keep your wand
 low, and permit Mr.
 Grim to touch his wand to yours; and you will speak such words as I direct
 you.
 If Harry Potter speaks any other word, then cut him down, the rest of you.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Yes, Master,” came the thirty-four-fold chorus.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry was chilled, and shivering, and not only because he was naked in the
 night.
 He didn't understand why Voldemort was 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 just killing him.
 There seemed to be only a single line leading into the future, and it was
 Voldemort's chosen line, and Harry did not know what came after this.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mr.
 White,” said Voldemort.
 “Touch your wand to Harry Potter's hand, and repeat these words.
 Magic that flows in me, bind this Vow.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mr.
 White spoke those words.
 Even through the distortion effect of his mask, it sounded as though his
 heart were breaking.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Behind Voldemort the obelisks chanted, a language that Harry did not know;
 three times they repeated their words, then fell silent.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mr.
 Grim,” said Voldemort.
 “Think of the reasons why you might trust this boy, if he had given this
 oath freely.
 Think of that potential for trust, and 
\emph on
sacrifice
\emph default
 it as you say...” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“By my trust that I hold for you,” said Mr.
 Grim, “be you held.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And then it was Harry Potter's turn to repeat Lord Voldemort's words, and
 Harry did so.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I vow...” Harry said.
 His voice shook, but he spoke.
 “That I shall not...
 by any act of mine...
 destroy the world...
 I shall take no chances...
 in not destroying the world...
 if my hand is forced...
 I may take the course...
 of lesser destruction over greater destruction...
 unless it seems to me that this Vow itself...
 leads to the world's end...
 and the friend...
 in whom I have confided honestly...
 agrees that this is so.
 By my own free will...” Harry could feel it, as the rite was invoked, the
 shining cords of power wrapping around his wand and Mr.
 Grim's wand, wrapping around his hand where Mr.
 White's wand touched it, wrapping around his 
\emph on
self
\emph default
 on some disturbingly abstract level.
 Harry could feel himself 
\emph on
invoking
\emph default
 his power of free choice, and he knew that his next words would 
\emph on
sacrifice
\emph default
 it, that this was absolutely the last chance to turn back.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“...
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

so shall it be,” said the coldly precise voice of Lord Voldemort.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“...
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

so shall it be,” Harry repeated, and he knew in that moment that the content
 of the Vow was no longer something he could decide whether or not to do,
 it was simply the way in which his body and mind would move.
 It was not a vow he could break even by sacrificing his life in the process.
 Like water flowing downhill or a calculator summing numbers, it was just
 a thing-Harry-Potter-would-do.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Did the Vow take, Mr.
 White?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mr.
 White sounded like he was weeping.
 “Yes, Master...
 I have lost so much, please, I have been punished enough.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Return to your places...” said Voldemort.
 “Good.
 All eyes on the Potter child, prepare to fire the instant he tries to flee,
 or raise his wand, or speak any word...” The Dark Lord floated high in the
 air, the black-clad figure overlooking the graveyard.
 Again he held a gun in his left hand, and his wand in his right.
 “Better.
 
\emph on
Now
\emph default
 we shall kill the Boy-Who-Lived.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mr.
 White staggered.
 Mr.
 Grim was laughing again, and so were others.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I did not do that to be funny,” Voldemort said coldly.
 “We are dealing with a 
\emph on
prophecy
\emph default
, fools.
 We are snipping the threads of destiny one by one; carefully, carefully,
 not knowing when we may first encounter resistance.
 This is the order in which the next acts shall be done.
 First Harry Potter shall be stunned, then his limbs severed and the wounds
 cauterized.
 Mr.
 Friendly and Mr.
 Honor will examine him for any trace of unusual magics.
 One of you shall shoot the boy many times with my Muggle weapon, and then
 as many of you as can shall strike him with the Killing Curse.
 Only then will Mr.
 Grim crush his skull and brains with the mundane substance of a tombstone.
 I shall verify his corpse, then his corpse shall be burned with Fiendfyre,
 then we will exorcise the surrounding area in case he has left a ghost.
 I myself will guard this place until six hours have passed, for I do not
 fully trust the wards I have set against Time's looping; and four of you
 shall search the surroundings for signs of anything noteworthy.
 Even after that we must remain vigilant for any sign of Harry Potter's
 renewed presence, in case Dumbledore has left some unimagined trick in
 play.
 If you can think of any trick that I have missed in being sure that Harry
 Potter's threat is ended, speak now and I shall reward you handsomely...
 speak now, in Merlin's name!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was stunned silence amid the cemetery; no one made to speak.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Useless, the lot of you,” Voldemort said with bitter scorn.
 “Now I shall ask Harry Potter one final question, and he is to answer that
 question for my ears alone, in Parseltongue.
 Strike the boy down at once if he answers with anything but hisses, if
 he tries to speak one word of human speech.” Then Voldemort hissed, “
\emph on
Power I know not, it wass ssaid that you would have.
 The Muggle Artss I have now learned of from you, and I am already sstudying
 them.
 Your power over life-eaterss musst be comprehended for onesself, or sso
 you ssay.
 If there iss any other power you posssesss, that I may come to have, tell
 me of it now.
 Elsse, I intend to torment certain of thosse you care for.
 Ssome livess I have already promissed you, but otherss I did not.
 Your mudblood sservantss in your little army.
 Your preciouss parentss.
 All sshall ssuffer for what will sseem to them like eternitiess; and then
 I sshall ssend them, broken, into the life-eater prisson to remember it,
 until they wasste and die.
 For each unknown power you tell me how to masster, or other ssecret you
 tell me that I desire to know, you may name one more of thosse to insstead
 be protected and honored under my reign.
 Thiss alsso I promisse and intend to keep.
\emph default
” Voldemort's smiling expression now came through as if it were a snake's
 gaping fangs, and the meaning that expression bore among snakes, a promise
 that whoever beheld the teeth was to be consumed by them.
 
\emph on
“Wasste not time in thoughtss of esscape, if you care for thosse oness.
 You have ssixty ssecondss to begin telling me ssomething I wissh to know,
 and then your death beginss.
\emph default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
