#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Aftermath, Something to Protect, Part 0
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:116-Aftermath-p0"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A
\end_layout

\end_inset

t
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 first Anna had been gratified to see the final Quidditch Cup go on so long
 -- as a Gryffindor she was a bystander at the House Cup thing, it wasn't
 like Gryffindor ever won.
 In contrast, last year's World Cup of Quidditch, to which her family had
 bought some very expensive tickets, had been over in 
\emph on
ten minutes
\emph default
 which was 
\emph on
awful
\emph default
.
 Modern Quidditch games had become too short, the Snitch caught much too
 quickly.
 It was a widely-talked problem among aficionados: broomstick enchantments
 had advanced, while the Snitch stayed the same regulation speed, with the
 result that Quidditch games had become shorter and shorter.
 At professional levels the sport of Quidditch had been reduced to a contest
 of who had the deepest pockets for their Seeker's experimental racing broom,
 and the rest of the players might as well have been watching from the stands.
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Everyone knew something had to be done, the situation had been getting worse
 for 
\emph on
centuries
\emph default
 and now it was 
\emph on
intolerable.

\emph default
 But the International Confederation of Wizards' Quidditch Committee was
 mired in all the usual acrimony of the I.C.W., screaming disputes between
 Germans and Bulgarians, and somehow nobody could agree on 
\emph on
exactly
\emph default
 how to fix the rules.
 To Anna the correct course seemed obvious, just make the Snitch fast enough
 to restore the four-hour or five-hour games of the early nineteenth century
 and the Golden Age of Quidditch.
 Except the Belgians thought the duration of a professional game should
 be two hours like in 
\emph on
La Belle
\emph default
 
\emph on

\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
'{E}
\end_layout

\end_inset

poque
\emph default
 when Belgium had dominated Quidditch, and the lunatic Italians wanted to
 go back to the week-long Quidditch games of the fourteenth century, and
 Britain's even crazier blood purists kept on talking up the occasional
 day-long Quidditch match as proof that broomsticks couldn't 
\emph on
really
\emph default
 have improved since everything was better in the old days 
\emph on
which was not how the Interdict of Merlin worked.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She was one hundred percent on the side of Harry Potter that it was time
 for Hogwarts to give up on those gibbering slowpokes and just change the
 rules, starting here and now.
 But not by 
\emph on
eliminating the Snitch,
\emph default
 that was going all the way back to 
\emph on
eleventh century Kwidditch.

\emph default
 It didn't matter if Headmistress Hufflepuff had first introduced the innovation
 because one of her students had wanted to play the game but not been suited
 to the usual roles.
 Snitches had caught on internationally because it was more exciting when
 the game could always end in the next minute.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Anna had been arguing this viewpoint at the top of her lungs for the last
 thirty minutes, quite forgetting to pay attention to the game.
 Thanks to a lucky coincidence of seating she'd been near the Boy-Who-Lived
 and his sign, and hence she'd managed to stake out her position right from
 the start.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She was aware, in the back of her mind, that if the Quidditch rules really
 
\emph on
did
\emph default
 change starting here and now, then this was the 
\emph on
most important thing she'd ever do.

\emph default
 She could almost 
\emph on
feel
\emph default
 the pressure of Time twisting around her as though the fate of Quidditch
 Itself were being settled this very day, and she was standing close to
 the center of it...
 though she hadn't gotten high-enough scores in Divination to actually sense
 anything like that, of course.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She hardly noticed when at one point the Boy-Who-Lived stood up to go to
 the bathroom.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Boy-Who-Lived did catch her eye when he trudged back; Harry Potter looked
 a bit tired and wobbly, though his uniform appeared as trim as if he'd
 just changed into a new one.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She noticed half an hour later on, when Harry Potter seemed to sway a bit,
 and then hunch over, his hands going to cover up his forehead; it looked
 like he was prodding at his forehead scar.
 The thought made her slightly worried; everyone knew there was 
\emph on
something going on
\emph default
 with Harry Potter, and if Potter's scar was hurting him then it was possible
 that a sealed horror was about to burst out of his forehead and eat everyone.
 She dismissed that thought, though, and continued to explain Quidditch
 facts to the historically ignorant at the top of her lungs.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She definitely noticed when Harry Potter stood up, hands still on his forehead,
 and dropped his hands to reveal that his famous lightning-bolt scar was
 now blazing red and inflamed.
 It was 
\emph on
bleeding,
\emph default
 with the blood dripping down Potter's nose.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She stopped talking mid-sentence.
 Other people turned to look at what she was staring at.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Professor McGonagall?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 Harry Potter said in a wavering voice.
 There were tears in the corners of his eyes, which shocked her; the Boy-Who-Liv
ed did 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 seem like the sort of person who would burst into tears.
 Harry Potter raised his voice further, as though it were hard for him to
 speak.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Um, Professor McGonagall?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall turned away from where she was arguing with the Hufflepuff
 Quidditch team.
 The Head of Gryffindor's eyes widened in shock, and then she was moving
 people out of her way, almost running.
 “Harry!” she said.
 “Your 
\emph on
scar!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Silence was spreading, in a widening circle.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I think,” Harry said, his voice still wavering but louder, “I think he's
 back.
 I think I'm seeing -- through Voldemort's mind
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Anna took a step back at You-Know-Who's name and nearly fell over a bleacher.
 An older boy standing next to her gave a cry of dismay, and then the Boy-Who-Li
ved shrieked even louder.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\noun on
He's killing them!
\noun default
” screamed Harry Potter.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Half the Quidditch stadium turned to look at him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“The ritual!” cried Harry Potter.
 “Blood of his servants! The blood, the life! He summoned them, he took
 their heads, their blood, the life, to renew his own -- 
\emph on
\noun on
The Dark Lord rises, Voldemort is returned!
\noun default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Madam Hooch blew a shrill whistle, and the Quidditch brooms that hadn't
 already stopped in midair began to slow.
 For herself she wasn't sure if this was a joke; if it was, Boy-Who-Lived
 or not, he was in more trouble than she could even imagine.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall raised her wand into position for a Quieting Charm
 and Harry Potter caught her hand.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Wait
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Harry Potter gasped, his voice lower, but still loud enough that she
 and the people near her could hear clearly.
 “He can be stopped -- I see his mind, his mistake -- he can be stopped
 
\emph on
now
\emph default
 -- 
\emph on
\noun on
The way is still open! She's following him! She who Voldemort slew!
\emph default
\noun default
” Harry's voice rose further, as Anna's own mouth fell open in sudden confusion.
 “
\emph on
\noun on
Return! Return, return, revive and stop him! Stop him, Hermione
\noun default
!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And then Harry Potter fell silent.
 He looked around at the people staring at him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She'd just about decided that this had to all be a prank in 
\emph on
unbelievably
\emph default
 poor taste, when a distant but sharp 
\noun on
crack
\noun default
 filled the air.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry Potter swayed, and fell to his knees, even as her heart jumped into
 her throat.
 An explosion of excited babble rose around them.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She could still hear the words from Harry Potter's mouth, as Professor McGonagal
l knelt next to him.
 “It worked,” Harry Potter gasped aloud, “she got him, he's gone.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
“What?
\emph default
” cried Professor McGonagall, then glanced around.
 “
\emph on
Quiet! Quiet, all of you!
\emph default
 Harry, what happened?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry Potter was speaking rapidly but loudly.
 “Voldemort -- tried to revive -- he summoned Death Eaters 
\emph on
and he killed them,
\emph default
 stole their blood and life -- Hermione's body was there, I don't know why,
 maybe Voldemort was planning to use it for something -- Voldemort came
 back, he resurrected himself, but Hermione 
\emph on
followed him back
\emph default
 and she 
\emph on
destroyed him,
\emph default
 he's gone, it's over.
 It happened in a graveyard near Hogwarts, it's,” Harry Potter rose to his
 feet, still swaying, “I think it's in that direction.” Harry Potter pointed
 in the rough direction the 
\noun on
crack
\noun default
 had come from, “I'm not sure how far.
 The sound from there took twenty seconds to get here, so maybe two minutes
 on a broomstick
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With a motion so smooth it looked unconscious, Professor McGonagall shifted
 into a stance and said “
\emph on
Expecto Patronum
\emph default
.
\emph on
” 
\emph default
She addressed the glowing cat that then appeared.
 “Go to Albus, tell him he must come at once
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Dumbledore's gone!” cried Harry Potter.
 “The Headmaster is gone, Professor McGonagall! The Dark Lord trapped him,
 he reversed some kind of trap the Headmaster planned and Dumbledore was
 caught outside Time, he's gone!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The horrified babble around them rose in pitch.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Go to Albus!” Professor McGonagall said to her Patronus.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The moonlit cat only looked at McGonagall sadly, and Anna sucked in her
 breath in sudden horror, feeling like someone had punched her in the stomach.
 It was real, it was all real, this wasn't a joke.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Professor McGonagall, Hermione is 
\emph on
alive!
\emph default
” Harry Potter raised his voice again.
 “She's really alive and not an Inferius or anything, and she's still there
 in the graveyard!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
“A broomstick!” 
\emph default
Professor McGonagall shouted.
 She turned to the players hovering motionless over the Quidditch field.
 “I need a broomstick.
 
\noun on
Now
\noun default
!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite everything, Anna raised a hand in mute protest, then caught herself,
 even as the Ravenclaw and Slytherin Seekers came zooming over (with excellent
 strategic sense, since they weren't actually doing anything).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry Potter was already retrieving another broomstick from his pouch, a
 multi-person one.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall saw this, and nodded firmly.
 “You stay here, Mr.
 Potter, unless there is some excellent reason you must be there.
 I will go at once.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“You mustn't!” squeaked Professor Flitwick, who'd shoved his tiny way through
 the crowd, occasionally running under someone's legs.
 His eyes were wide, he looked as though he wanted to faint.
 “You have to stay at Hogwarts, Minerva! You -- you're the
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Professor Flitwick seemed to be having trouble speaking.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall spun around to face Professor Flitwick, and then stopped,
 blood draining from her face.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Then she seized the broomstick from Harry Potter's hand, and presented it
 to the tiny half-goblin Professor.
 “Filius,” she said crisply.
 All the incipient panic had disappeared from her voice, she now spoke in
 her crisp Scottish accent as though addressing lessons on Monday.
 “Look for the graveyard of which Mr.
 Potter spoke, find Miss Granger.
 Apparate her to St.
 Mungo's and then stay by her.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I think
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Harry Potter said hoarsely.
 “I think Transfiguration might have been used in combat there -- Professor
 Quirrell tried to fight Voldemort -- take precautions
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Filius Flitwick nodded without halting in getting on the broomstick.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Professor Quirrell's dead!” wailed Harry Potter.
 The anguish in his voice carried clearly.
 “He's dead! The Dark Lord killed him! His body
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Harry Potter choked up.
 “It's there, in the graveyard.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
She stumbled back again, feeling it like another punch in her gut.
 Professor Quirrell had been -- one of her favorite Professors, 
\emph on
ever
\emph default
, he'd made her rethink everything she'd believed about Slytherin, she'd
 known in some distant way that he was probably going to die very soon but
 to hear that he was really, truly dead...
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Boy-Who-Lived sat down on the bench, as if his legs couldn't support
 him anymore.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall turned to the crowd, touching her wand to her throat.
 “
\noun on
Quidditch is over
\noun default
,” her amplified voice boomed out.
 “
\noun on
Go back to your dormitories
\noun default

\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Don't!
\emph default
” screamed Harry Potter.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor McGonagall turned to look at him.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tears were leaking down the Boy-Who-Lived's cheeks, he looked like the interrupt
ion had surprised himself as much as it had surprised anyone else.
 “It was Professor Quirrell's last plot,” Harry Potter said, his voice breaking.
 The Boy-Who-Lived looked at the Quidditch players who had now flown to
 nearby, as though speaking to them directly.
 “His last plot.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry Potter was floated off by Professor McGonagall to the infirmary.
 The other Professors ran off to oversee who-knew-what, leaving only Professors
 Sinistra and Hooch behind.
 At the stadium, rumors ran wild; Anna repeated everything she could remember
 hearing as best she could.
 Something had happened to Dumbledore, some Death Eaters had been summoned
 and killed (no, Harry Potter hadn't said which ones), Professor Quirrell
 had gone out to face the Dark Lord and died for it, You-Know-Who had returned
 and died again, Professor Quirrell was dead, he was dead.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In time most of the students wandered off back to their dormitories, to
 sleep if they could.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Anna stayed in the stadium, and watched the rest of the game, ignoring her
 body's need for sleep, and her eyes that often blurred with tears.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Ravenclaw team put up a valiant fight.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But there was no Quidditch team anywhere that could've defeated the Slytherins
 that day.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dawn was tinging the sky when the Slytherins won their final game, the Quidditch
 Cup, and the House Cup.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
