#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Something to Protect: Minerva McGonagall
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:117-Something-MM"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
T
\end_layout

\end_inset

he
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 morning after had come, and all the students had gathered silently around
 the four Tables of Hogwarts, Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres among them.
 He had collapsed in exhaustion last night and been awoken in the infirmary
 next morning, still muzzy, with the Philosopher's Stone underneath his
 left sock.
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Head Table looked like a plague had swept it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dumbledore's throne was gone from the Head Table, without replacement, leaving
 the center of the Head Table empty.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus Snape was sitting in a floating seat, the magical equivalent of
 a wheel\SpecialChar \-
chair.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Sprout was missing.
 According to what Harry had been told last night, a court Legilimens would
 examine her to see if any further compulsions remained, but probably no
 charges would be filed.
 Harry had emphasized to Professor McGonagall and the Aurors, as hard as
 he could, that Professor Sprout was probably just a victim.
 The Boy-Who-Lived had pronounced that he'd seen no evidence of Sprout's
 intentional guilt in Voldemort's mind.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Flitwick was missing, presumably still staying by Hermione's side.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Professor Sinistra was missing and Harry didn't know why or where.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The numbness that surrounded Harry's mind was like a Mylar blanket, protective
 if not comforting.
 There were scenes in his mind of black robes falling and blood spilling,
 appearing for an instant before being shoved back.
 He'd process it later, not now.
 Some other time would be better, future-Harry would have a comparative
 advantage at coping.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Somewhere inside Harry was the fear that it 
\emph on
wouldn't
\emph default
 hurt, that there would be no price to be paid.
 But that fear also could be put off into the future.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No breakfast had appeared on the tables.
 The students sitting near Harry were waiting in frightened silence.
 Owls had been prohibited from entering or leaving Hogwarts since early
 last night.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The doors of the Great Hall opened once more, and forth came Deputy Headmistress
 Minerva McGonagall.
 She wore robes of formal black, and her head was bare, denuded of its usual
 witch's hat.
 Her grey-brown-blonde hair was done up in a coiled braid, as if in preparation
 for a hat to be placed later; but for now Harry saw her head bare for the
 first time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Minerva McGonagall came to the lectern that stood before the Head Table.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All eyes were upon her.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I am afraid that I have much news,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 Minerva said.
 Her voice was sad, within its Scottish precision.
 “And most of it is terrible.
 First.
 The reason I am the one to speak to you is that the Headmaster of Hogwarts,
 Albus,” her voice stopped, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, has been lost.
 You-Know-Who trapped him outside Time, and we do not know if he ever can
 be brought back to us.
 We, we have lost, what may have been, the greatest Headmaster, that Hogwarts
 has ever had.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A susurration of horror arose across the tables, no audible gasps or moans,
 just the sound of many intaken breaths; most from Gryffindor, and some
 from Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw as well.
 The ill news had already been known, but now it had also been said by authority.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Second.
 You-Know-Who returned briefly, but is once again dead.
 All that remained of him was his hands clutched around Miss Granger's throat.
 There is no more threat from him, or so we think.” Minerva McGonagall drew
 in another breath.
 “Third.
 Professor Quirrell died with his wand in his hand, facing You-Know-Who.
 He was found not far from where You-Know-Who perished again, a victim of
 You-Know-Who's Killing Curse.” Another susurration of verified horror, now
 from all four tables.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Minerva drew another breath.
 “Last night we also lost what may have been the greatest Defense Professor
 in the history of Hogwarts.
 His scholastic merits alone...
 Our Defense Professor has gone by many names, but his true name was David
 Monroe.
 As he was the last of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Monroe, his funeral
 -- his second funeral, and the true one -- will be held before the Most
 Ancient Hall of the Wizengamot, in two days.
 Yet a wake shall also be held for the Defense Professor of Hogwarts, for
 our own Professor Quirrell, in this castle.
 That man also died a Hogwarts teacher, as nobly as a Hogwarts teacher ever
 did.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry listened in silence, shoving down the tears that again rose to his
 eyes.
 It wasn't even 
\emph on
true,
\emph default
 let alone unexpected; and yet hearing it still hurt.
 From where he sat beside, Anthony Goldstein put a comforting hand over
 Harry's hand, and Harry left it there.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Fourth.
 One piece of exceedingly unexpected and happy news.
 Hermione Granger is alive and in full health, sound of body and mind.
 Miss Granger is being observed at St.
 Mungo's to see if there are any unexpected aftereffects from whatever happened
 to her, but she appears to be doing astonishingly well considering her
 previous condition.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It should have produced wild cheers from Ravenclaw and Gryffindor, if the
 news had come as part of any other package, or if it had been more unexpected.
 As it stood, Harry saw a few smiles, but they were brief.
 Maybe they'd jumped for joy earlier, but at the moment there was only silence.
 Harry understood that.
 He wasn't cheering either, not right now.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Finally
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Minerva McGonagall faltered, then raised her voice.
 “I fear that I have the gravest possible news to share with some of our
 students.
 It seems that You-Know-Who summoned those who were once his followers;
 and many of them obeyed, whether from terribly misguided loyalty, or out
 of fear for their families if they refused.
 A sacrifice was required, it seems, to complete You-Know-Who's resurrection;
 or perhaps You-Know-Who blamed his former followers for his defeat.
 Thirty-seven bodies were found, more followers outside Azkaban than You-Know-Wh
o was thought to have.
 I am afraid
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Minerva McGonagall faltered again.
 “I am afraid that among the deceased are the parents of many of our students
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
no no no no no no 
\noun on
no no no no
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As though by some terrible magnet, Harry's eyes were drawn to the picture
 of absolute horror that was Draco Malfoy's face, even as the comforting
 cotton wrap around Harry's thoughts was torn away like thin tissue.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How could he have not thought, how could he have not realised
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

-- 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Somewhere in the background, someone was already screaming, and yet the
 room seemed very silent.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Sheila, Flora, and Hestia Carrow.
 Lost both their parents last night.
 Students who have lost their fathers include Robert Jugson.
 Ethan Jugson.
 Sara Jugson.
 Michael MacNair.
 Riley and Randy Rookwood.
 Lily Lu.
 Sarah Sproch.
 Daniel Gibson.
 Jason Gross.
 Elsie Ambrose
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Maybe Lucius realised, maybe he was smart enough to stay away, maybe he
 realised that Voldemort was the one who struck at Draco
\emph default

\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\emph on
--
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“--
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

Theodore Nott.
 Vincent Crabbe.
 Gregory Goyle.
 Draco Malfoy.
 This concludes the list.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One student sitting at the Gryffindor table let out a single cheer, and
 was immediately slapped by the Gryffindor witch sitting nearby hard enough
 that a Muggle would have lost teeth.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Thirty points from Gryffindor and detention for the first month of next
 year,” Professor McGonagall said, her voice hard enough to break stone.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Lies!
\emph default
” shrieked a tall Slytherin, who'd risen up from that table.
 “
\emph on
Lies! Lies! The Dark Lord will return, and he'll, he'll teach you all the
 meaning of
\emph default

\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\emph on
--
\emph default
”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Mr.
 Jugson,” said Severus Snape's voice.
 It was also faltering, it didn't sound like the Potions Master at all,
 it wasn't loud and yet the Slytherin fell silent.
 “Robert.
 The Dark Lord killed your father.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Robert Jugson let out a scream of terrific fury and turned to run out of
 the room, and Draco Malfoy folded in on himself like a collapsing house
 and made sounds that nobody heard, because the babble was starting up now.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry rose six inches from the bench and then stopped.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
what would you say to Draco there is nothing you can say to Draco you can't
 go over there now and pretend to be his friend 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
you want to make it right you want to make it better but you cannot make
 it right there is no way you can make right what you have done to him what
 you did to Vincent to Gregory what you did to Theodore 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The world blurred around Harry, he barely saw Padma Patil rise up and make
 her way toward the Slytherin table and Draco, or Seamus heading towards
 Theodore.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And because Harry had read his father's science fiction and fantasy collection,
 because he had already read this scene a dozen times over when it happened
 to other protagonists, there was an image in Harry's mind of Mad-Eye Moody,
 of the scarred man called Alastor.
 And Mad-Eye's image was saying, in just the same voice he'd used to speak
 to Albus Dumbledore in memory, that the Death Eaters had been pointing
 their wands at Harry, that they had already chosen to take the Dark Mark,
 that they had been guilty of sins beyond reckoning and maybe beyond Harry's
 imagination, that they had foregone the deontological protection of good
 people and made themselves targetable if there was a strong reason to sacrifice
 them.
 That it had been necessary to save Harry's innocent parents from torture
 and Azkaban, that it had been necessary to protect the world from Voldemort.
 That plain old ordinary Aurors and judges had to do much more morally questiona
ble things than killing sworn and blooded Death Eaters who were pointing
 wands at them, in the course of carrying out ordinary justices that were
 less clear-cut but still necessary to society.
 If it were not right to do what Harry had done, if it were not right to
 do much 
\emph on
more
\emph default
 morally ambiguous things than what Harry had done, then society as human
 beings knew it could not exist.
 Nobody with common sense would blame Harry for doing it, Neville wouldn't
 blame him, Professor McGonagall wouldn't blame him, Dumbledore wouldn't
 blame him, even Hermione would tell him it had been the right thing to
 do once she knew.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And all of this was true.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Just as it was also true that some part of Harry's mind had calculated that
 wiping out the blood purist political elite would make it easier and more
 convenient to rebuild magical Britain afterward.
 It hadn't been an important consideration, but it had still been calculated
 in those instants of rapid thought, a check on the long-term consequences
 to see if they rated as catastrophic, and a decision that they actually
 rated as pretty much okay.
 And that check had forgotten that Death Eaters had children at Hogwarts
 or that one of them wore the face of Draco's father.
 It wouldn't have changed anything.
 It wouldn't have changed anything at all.
 But that was the truth of the calculation Harry's mind had performed, given
 only seconds to think.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At least Harry could, if the Death Eaters' survivors were in any sort of
 financial trouble, do something about that easily enough.
 Transfigure gold, and use the Stone to make it permanent -- unless making
 that much gold would be troublesome to the wizard economy at large, or
 cause objections from goblins who didn't understand market monetarist economics
 -- though it wasn't as though Harry didn't also have useful services to
 sell
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

-- 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other cotton wrap was also being torn off Harry's thoughts, now.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It seems likely,” Minerva said, her voice was not loud but it cut through
 all other sounds, “that some of our students will also have been stripped
 last night of those named as their guardians.
 Should you end up a ward of Hogwarts, please know that I will take the
 responsibilities of my position with extreme seriousness.
 You will be extended every courtesy.
 Your family's vault will be managed well and truly.
 As best I can, I will treat every one of you as I would my own children
 -- and I will protect you as much as I would protect my own children, no
 more, no less.
 I hope that is clear to 
\emph on
\noun on
everyone at Hogwarts
\emph default
\noun default
.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Students nodded rapidly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Good,” Minerva said.
 Her voice sank back.
 “Then there is one more thing that must be done.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With a sad, solemn air, Professor Sinistra emerged from a side entrance.
 She was wearing white robes instead of her usual brown, and instead of
 her customary witch's hat, she was wearing a many-tasseled square hat whose
 colors had faded into mostly gray.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In her hands, Professor Sinistra carried the Sorting Hat.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the air of someone carrying out a ceremony that had not changed in
 centuries, Aurora Sinistra knelt, on one knee, before Minerva McGonagall,
 presenting to her the Sorting Hat in both hands.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Minerva McGonagall took the Sorting Hat from Professor Sinistra's hands,
 and placed it on her own head.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was a long silence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\noun on
Headmistress
\noun default
!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“As Albus Dumbledore is not dead,” Minerva said, her voice so low that students
 strained to hear it, “but only taken from us, I accept this position in
 the capacity of Acting Headmistress only -- until Dumbledore's return.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A piercing cry split the Great Hall, and Fawkes was there, overflying all
 Four Tables in a slow spiral arc.
 He passed over each of the tables, humming in his bird's voice, a hum of
 absolute loyalty that would outlast the death of merely physical fires.
 
\emph on
Wait,
\emph default
 the hum seemed to say.
 
\emph on
Wait until his return, and be true.

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fawkes circled Minerva McGonagall three times, feathered wings brushing
 around her as the tears began to creep down her cheeks; then the bird flew
 out a window above the Hall, and was gone.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
