#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Something to Protect: Professor Quirrell
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:118-Something-PQ"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
T
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Argument 3
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
he
\end_layout

\end_inset

 Sun shone down on the Scottish green, striking sparks of reflected white
 from every passing dewdrop or reflective leaf that happened to position
 itself correctly, a clear blue sky for a funeral.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry had declined to give the eulogy.
 He'd declined for the second time.
 Professor Flitwick had asked him about it weeks ago in May, to give Harry
 time to write his lines before it would become necessary to speak; and
 Harry had said no then, too.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So it fell to a sixth-year Gryffindor, Oliver Habryka, who had the fourth-highes
t total of Quirrell points among all the students, and who had been General
 of an army.
 The seventeen-year-old boy was tall and not especially handsome in solid
 black robes; instead of a red tie, he was wearing a purple tie such as
 Professor Quirrell had sometimes favored.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Speaking, under the circumstances, 
\emph on
ex tempore
\emph default
.
 The previous eulogies, written well in advance, had been discarded; Oliver
 Habryka had a parchment in his left hand, but he wasn't looking at it at
 all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Professor Quirrell was very sick,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 the tall boy said, his wavering voice falling into a hush of students,
 occasionally broken by a muffled sob.
 “I think if Professor Quirrell had been able to fight in the fullness of
 his power, You-Know-Who couldn't have beat him easily, and maybe not at
 all.
 They say that David Monroe was the only one that You-Know-Who was ever
 afraid of, in his day.
 But,” Oliver's voice broke, “Professor Quirrell wasn't in the fullness
 of his power.
 He was very sick.
 He had trouble walking by himself.
 And he went to face the Dark Lord, alone.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There was a pause, then, while the students cried for a while.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Oliver wiped away his tears with his sleeve, and spoke again.
 “We don't know exactly what happened,” said Oliver.
 “I imagine the Dark Lord laughed at him.
 Maybe made fun of the Professor, for challenging him when he couldn't stand
 up.
 Well, 
\emph on
he's not laughing now,
\emph default
 is he.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There were fierce nods from the students; all of them that Harry could see,
 from Gryffindor to Slytherin.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Maybe the Dark Lord knew some way of curing Professor Quirrell, You-Know-Who
 did come back from the dead after all.
 Maybe he offered Professor Quirrell his life if Professor Quirrell would
 serve him.
 Professor Quirrell smiled, and told the Dark Lord it was time for them
 to play a game called Who's The Most Dangerous Wizard In The World.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
If you don't know, don't just make stuff up
\emph default
.
 But Harry didn't say anything.
 It was what Lord Voldemort might have tried, it was what Professor Quirrell
 might have said back.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“And they aren't telling us everything,” Oliver said, “but we can guess
 what happened next.
 We all know that Hermione Granger, who was one of the Professor's best
 students, was killed by a troll earlier this year, it must have been the
 Dark Lord who made it happen, just like he framed her for the Blood-Cooling
 Charm.
 Professor Quirrell knew the Dark Lord was behind it, so he stole Miss Granger's
 body and preserved it, kept it safe
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Couldn't blame him for that one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Then Professor Quirrell went out to face the Dark Lord.
 The Dark Lord killed Professor Quirrell.
 And Hermione Granger came back to life.
 They say she's alive and whole now, and maybe something more.
 When the Dark Lord tried to seize her, all that was left of him afterward
 was his burned robes and his hands around Miss Granger's throat.
 Just as Harry Potter was protected from the Killing Curse by his mother's
 love and sacrifice, Professor Quirrell willingly going out, to face, the
 Dark Lord alone, must have called, Hermione Granger's spirit, back from,
 from wherever, she was
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” Oliver's voice was breaking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Not just like that,” Harry said from the front row of seats, his own voice
 hoarse.
 He 
\emph on
had
\emph default
 to say something at this point, before it got out of control.
 If it wasn't already out of control.
 “David Monroe was a powerful wizard, more powerful than anyone knew except
 him and me.
 I don't think you can bring someone back from the dead just by sacrificing
 yourself.
 No one should try doing it that way.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Such a beautiful story.
 It should have been true.
 
\emph on
It should have been true.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I don't know very much about the person behind the Professor,” Oliver Habryka
 said, after he got himself under control again.
 “I know David Monroe wasn't a happy man.
 He never could cast a Patronus Charm.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tears were gathering in Harry's eyes again.
 It wasn't right, it wasn't fair, Voldemort had killed so many people, he
 should have died along with his followers, he didn't deserve special treatment.
 But it hadn't just been Harry's weakness, it had been the horcruxes, Voldemort
 
\emph on
couldn't
\emph default
 have been killed outright.
 So Harry could admit it, he was glad, he was 
\emph on
glad
\emph default
 Professor Quirrell wasn't all gone...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“But I, know,” said Oliver, tears glistening on his own cheeks, “Professor
 Quirrell, is happy, wherever, he is now.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On Harry's left hand, a tiny emerald glowed bright beneath the morning sun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Not Heaven, not some faraway star, not a different place but a better person,
 I'll show you, someday I'll show you how to be happy
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The tall boy glanced down at a parchment he held in his other hand, the
 first time he'd consulted it.
 “Professor Quirrell,” Oliver said, his voice now fiercer and faster, “was,
 by far, the best Professor of Battle Magic that Hogwarts ever had.
 Salazar Slytherin couldn't have been half as good a teacher, no matter
 what spells he knew.
 Professor Quirrell told us at the beginning of this year that what he taught
 us would always be our firm foundation in the arts of Defense.
 And it will be.
 Forever.
 We'll teach it to the new students next year, no matter who we have for
 a professor.
 The older students will teach the younger ones.
 That's the solution to the curse on the Defense position.
 We won't sit around waiting for authority to teach us.
 And we'll make sure that Professor Quirrell’s teachings never die out of
 Hogwarts.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry looked at where Professor -- no, Headmistress McGonagall -- was sitting,
 and saw the Headmistress nodding silently, a look that was sad and stern
 and proud.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“They haven't let us see Miss Granger yet,” Oliver said.
 His voice quavered.
 “The Girl-Who-Revived.
 But I'll always think of the Defense Professor when I see her.
 His sacrifice lives on in her, just as his teachings live on in us.” Oliver
 glanced at where Harry sat, then looked down again at the parchment.
 “Here's to Professor Quirrell, then, the best Slytherin that ever was,
 what every Slytherin should be! Three cheers for him!”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Huzzah! Huzzah! Huzzah!
\emph default
”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No one stayed silent this time, not a single student that Harry could see.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
