#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Lato
\font_typewriter Liberation Mono
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing other 1.3
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.75in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Something to Protect: Severus Snape
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:121-Something-SS"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Initial
\begin_inset Argument 2
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Argument 3
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
somber
\end_layout

\end_inset

 mood pervaded the Headmistress's office.
 Minerva had returned after dropping off Draco and Narcissa/Nancy at St.
 Mungo's, where the Lady Malfoy was being examined to see if a decade living
 as a Muggle had done any damage to her health; and Harry had come up to
 the Headmistress's office again and then...
 not been able to think of priorities.
 There was so 
\emph on
much
\emph default
 to do, so many things, that even Headmistress McGonagall didn't seem to
 know where to start, and certainly not Harry.
 Right now Minerva was repeatedly writing words on parchment and then erasing
 them with a handwave, and Harry had closed his eyes for clarity.
 Was there any 
\emph on
next
\emph default
 first thing that needed to happen...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There came a knock upon the great oaken door that had been Dumbledore's,
 and the Headmistress opened it with a word.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The man who entered the Headmistress's office appeared worn, he had discarded
 his wheelchair but still walked with a limp.
 He wore black robes that were simple, yet clean and unstained.
 Over his left shoulder was slung a knapsack, of sturdy gray leather set
 with silver filigree that held four green pearl-like stones.
 It looked like a thoroughly enchanted knapsack, one that could contain
 the contents of a Muggle house.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One look at him, and Harry knew.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Headmistress McGonagall sat frozen behind her new desk.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus Snape inclined his head to her.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What is the meaning of this?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 said the Headmistress, sounding...
 heart-sick, like she'd known, upon a glance, just like Harry had.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I resign my position as the Potions Master of Hogwarts,” the man said simply.
 “I will not stay to draw my last month's salary.
 If there are students who have been particularly harmed by me, you may
 use the money for their benefit.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
He knows.

\emph default
 The thought came to Harry, and he couldn't have said in words just 
\emph on
what
\emph default
 the Potions Master now knew; except that it was clear that Severus knew
 it.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Severus...” Headmistress McGonagall began.
 Her voice sounded hollow.
 “Professor Severus Snape, you may not realize how difficult it is to find
 Potions Masters who can safely teach Muggleborns, or Professors sharp enough
 to keep Slytherin House in any semblance of order...” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Again the man inclined his head.
 “I think it need not be said to you, Headmistress, but I recommend in the
 strongest possible terms that the next Head of Slytherin be nothing like
 me.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Severus, you only did as Albus told you to do! You could stay on and act
 differently!” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Headmistress,” Harry said.
 His own voice seemed also hollow, and Harry wondered at it, for he hadn't
 known Severus Snape that well.
 “If he wants to go, I think you should let him go.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Dumbledore was using him.
 Maybe not exactly the way Professor Quirrell thought, maybe it was prophecy
 rather than sabotaging Slytherin, but Dumbledore was still using him.
 There were things that could have been said long ago to Severus, to free
 him.
 It's clear why Dumbledore didn't risk that, but still, Severus wasn't being
 used kindly.
 Even his blindness and grief were being used, the way he didn't grasp the
 consequences of his actions as Potions Master...

\emph default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“It is well to find you here, Mr.
 Potter,” Severus said.
 “There is unfinished business between us.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry didn't know what to say, so he just nodded.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus seemed to be having some difficulty speaking, as he stood before
 the two of them with the grey knapsack on his shoulder.
 Finally he seemed to find the words he'd come to speak.
 “Your mother.
 Lily.
 She was
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

--” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I know,” Harry said, through the thickness of his throat.
 “You don't have to say it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Lily was a fine upstanding witch, Mr.
 Potter.
 I would not have you think otherwise from any words I said to you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Severus?
\emph default
” said Minerva McGonagall, looking as shocked as if she'd been bitten by
 her own shoes.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The former Potions Master kept his eyes on Harry.
 “More than one bar lay between myself and Lily, most notably my ill-advised
 attempts to curry favor with the purebloods of my house.
 If I made it sound like one mistake upon a muddy field ended it all, if
 I pretended that she had no reason but shallowness not to love me, I hope
 your books have also told you why fools may say such things.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“They did,” Harry said.
 He was looking at the fine gray knapsack on Severus Snape's left shoulder,
 unable to meet the Potions Master's eyes.
 “They did.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“However,” the former Potions Master continued, “I'm afraid I have nothing
 more to say about your father than what I've already told you.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“
\emph on
Severus!
\emph default
” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The former Potions Master seemed to have eyes only for Harry.
 “The Dark Mark upon my arm is not dead, nor is the prophecy fulfilled by
 that story you recounted before the crowd.
 How did you destroy all but a remnant of the Dark Lord?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry hesitated.
 “I Obliviated most of his memories and...
 sealed him, I guess is how wizards say it.
 Even if the seal breaks, he won't come back as himself.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus frowned briefly and then shrugged.
 “I suppose that is acceptable.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Professor Snape,” Harry said, because this too was now his responsibility,
 “the Order of the Phoenix owes you for services rendered.
 I'm in an excellent position to repay it, both financially and magically.
 Just in case you want to start your next life in a position of wealth,
 or with better hair, or something.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Strange words to say to such as me,” the former Potions Master said in
 a soft drawl.
 “I went to the Dark Lord intending to sell him the prophecy in exchange
 for Lily's love becoming mine, by whatever darkness was required to achieve
 it.
 That is hardly something to be forgiven lightly.
 And then, in the years after when I was a Potions Master...
 that you experienced yourself.
 Do you think my service to the Order of the Phoenix has repaid all my sins?”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“People are always broken,” Harry said, though the words stuck in his throat.
 “They always make mistakes.
 At least you tried to repay them.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Perhaps,” said the former Potions Master.
 “My final duty was to fail in guarding the Stone, to be struck down.
 This I have done, and I survived it, which I never expected to do.” Severus
 was leaning against the door through which he'd entered, taking his weight
 off his left leg.
 “I would not have thought to ask for your forgiveness, but since you offer
 it so freely, I will accept with thanks.
 From this day on I wish to take less unkindly ways, and I think that is
 best done by starting over.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tears glistened on Minerva McGonagall's nose and cheeks, when she spoke
 her voice was without hope.
 “Surely you could start over inside Hogwarts.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus shook his head.
 “Too many students would remember me as the evil Potions Master.
 No, Minerva.
 I will go someplace new, and take a new name, and find someone new to love.”
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Severus Snape,” Harry said, because it was his responsibility to say it,
 “has all your will been done?” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Lily's killer is vanquished,” the man said.
 “I am content.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Headmistress lowered her head.
 “Be well, Severus,” she whispered.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I do have one last piece of advice,” Harry said.
 “If you want it.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“What is it?” said Severus Snape.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Ruminating about the past can contribute to depression.
 You have my blanket permission to just never think about your past, ever.
 You shouldn't think that it's your responsibility to Lily to bear your
 guilt for her, or anything like that.
 Just keep your mind on your future and whatever new people you meet.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“I shall take your wisdom into consideration,” Severus said neutrally.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Also, try a different brand of hair shampoo.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A wry grin crossed Severus's face, and Harry thought it might have been,
 for the first time, that man's true smile.
 “Drop dead, Potter.” 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry laughed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Severus laughed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Minerva was sobbing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Without saying anything else, the free man took a pinch of Floo powder,
 and cast it into the office's fireplace, and strode into the green flame
 whispering something that nobody caught; and that was the last that anyone
 ever heard of Severus Snape.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
