#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume1_16x23.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{A Message From The Author}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
A Message From The Author
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote

\emph on
Disclaimer: J.K.
 Rowling owns Harry Potter, and no one owns the methods of rationality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This fiction is widely considered to have really hit its stride starting
 at around Chapter 5.
 If you still don't like it after Chapter 10, give up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is 
\emph on
not
\emph default
 a strict single-point-of-departure fiction 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

--
\end_layout

\end_inset

 there exists a primary point of departure, at some point in the past, but
 also other alterations.
 The best term I've heard for this fiction is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

parallel universe
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The text contains many clues: obvious clues, not-so-obvious clues, truly
 obscure hints which I was shocked to see some readers successfully decode,
 and massive evidence left out in plain sight.
 This is a rationalist story; its mysteries are solvable, and meant to be
 solved.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All science mentioned is real science.
 But please keep in mind that, beyond the realm of science, the views of
 the characters may not be those of the author.
 Not everything the protagonist does is a lesson in wisdom, and advice offered
 by darker characters may be untrustworthy or dangerously double-edged.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The pacing of the story is that of serial fiction, i.e., that of a TV show
 running for a predetermined number of seasons, whose episodes are individually
 plotted but with an overall arc building to a final conclusion.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
