#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume4_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 8.25in
\paperheight 10.75in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.875in
\rightmargin 0.625in
\bottommargin 0.875in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Notes}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Chapter 88 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand nameref
reference "chap:88Time-Pressure,-PartI"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From Eliezer Yudkowsky's Facebook post about chapter 88:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size footnotesize
The cognitive skill taught in Ch.
 88 is the insight that I call ‘wasted motion’.
 If you read Ch.
 88 closely, a ‘Tick’ does not occur just because time passes.
 It occurs after each of Harry’s thoughts (or actions) that predictably
 do not contribute to [resolving the issue successfully].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size footnotesize
For more general example, if you want to solve a problem, then after you've
 solved it, any emotional fretting you did about whether you could solve
 it will have been a wasted motion in retrospect -- those thoughts will
 predictably not have contributed to reaching the goal in hindsight.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size footnotesize
“But if I’m genuinely not sure if I can solve a problem, the value of informatio
n about whether I can solve it is high, if the cost of trying and failing
 is non-negligible!” True, though this depends on the existence of branches
 where you don’t solve the problem, which isn't very heroic epistemology.
 The value of information about the exact level of effort required is even
 higher, and if it leads you to put in the correct level of effort, that
 will not have been a wasted motion in retrospect -- heroic epistemology
 certainly allows for possible worlds in which higher levels of effort were
 required.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size footnotesize
But regardless of this sort of obvious theoretical objection, 
\emph on
in practice
\emph default
 you would still be very well advised to fix in your mind the scenario where
 your goal has been achieved, and ask whether a thought will predictably
 not have contributed to getting there in retrospect.
 In a mind which has not practiced detecting wasted motions, there will
 be many, many wasted motions; so ignore the theoretical objections and
 just do it for a while.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Chapter 96 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand nameref
reference "chap:96Roles-Part7"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For those who have not read canon: The wooden sign has somewhat changed,
 but the inscription here is the same as in J.K.
 Rowling's original.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
