#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\use_default_options true
\master hpmor_volume2_16x23.lyx
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 8.25in
\paperheight 10.75in
\leftmargin 0.5in
\topmargin 0.875in
\rightmargin 0.625in
\bottommargin 0.875in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Notes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Notes}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Chapter 58 TSPE, Constrained Cognition, Part VIII
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A movie trailer for 
\emph on
Army of Darkness,
\emph default
 resembling the one Harry saw, is THV1KkPXIxQ on YouTube.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The key quote is as follows, spoken by a man of modern times to listeners
 from the Middle Ages:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“All right you primitive screwheads! Listen up! You see this? This… is my
 
\emph on
boomstick!
\emph default
”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Chapter 64 Omake Files 4, Alternate Parallels
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you're five hours past your bedtime and still reading this, may I suggest
 getting some sleep? The fic will still be here tomorrow… unless, you know,
 something 
\emph on
bad
\emph default
 happens to it and the next morning there's just a 404 at this address and
 you're left with nothing but a fading memory and an eternal regret that
 you didn't stay awake longer and keep reading while you still had the chance…
 but hey, how probable is that?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This story spreads by blogging, tweeting, word of mouth, favoriting, plugging
 on forums, and adding to lists; and remember, if the readers before you
 hadn't taken a moment to do that, you probably wouldn't have found this.
 If that's not enough to motivate you, then let me add that if you don't
 help spread rationality, Hermione will be sad.
 You don't want her to be sad, right?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Don't forget to visit LessWrong dot com and read the Sequences, the true
 existence of which this fic is but a shadow.
 I recommend starting with the sequence 
\emph on
How to Actually Change Your Mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And now, with all universes owned by their respective creators, I present:
\emph on

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\bar under
OMAKE FILES #4:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\series bold
THE OTHER FANFICTIONS
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 YOU COULD'VE BEEN READING
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
